 Thank you.  Hello everyone and welcome back to Koji Kake.  I'm the director of program innovation here at the LFR and House Education  Center.  We're a small nonprofit based year and set of Eastern Connecticut and our mission is to connect  people to each other and to where their food comes from, to culinary and farm based education.  Koji Kake on 2025, we're not possible without the generous support of our sponsors,  specifically our cultivator sponsor this year's son, Jane.  So this morning we have another fantastic presentation for you all and it's called a whole  new world of possibilities.  Koji uses and ambiguity on the global marketplace, a ready to be joined by a Lenny Michael.  Lenny Michael is a food anthropologist and nomadic fermenter with an international career  in hospitality operations, fermentation practice and education.  She holds a matches and anthropology of food from SOA, University of London, with a dissertation  on the globalization of Koji and title cultures and cultures of Koji, Japan's national  role, navigating through transnational communities and colleges of flavor.  Lenny has traveled the world through and with romance, designing interactive art installations  and multi-sensory dining experiences, educational events and festivals, all focusing on  fermentation as a catalyst for the future of food.  A Lenny is currently based out of Mumbai pursuing independent research on decolonizing indigenous  food waste with a focus on wild, mold-based fermentation.  And you can learn all about what a Lenny is doing through her Instagram,  at nomadic fermenty stuff.  So that I would like to welcome a tour stream.  Good morning.  Good evening.  Hi Eric.  Good evening.  Good morning.  Nice to see you again.  And thanks for having me at Koji Kake on again.  Absolutely.  Happy to have you back.  I feel like every time I come to Koji Kake on, I'm like joining from a different country.  Yeah, it's my first time presenting from India.  So thanks for having me.  Looking forward.  Absolutely.  So I'll pull up your slides.  And then let me know when to switch.  And then we should be good to go from there.  Sure.  Thanks, Eric.  And thanks, Koji Kake on again.  So, as Eric well presented title of my presentation today,  it is based on a collaborative research project with Dr. Maya Hay, a scholar at the center  of the social study of microbes at Helsinki University.  Our article recently got published in the journal of Food Culture and Society.  And it is open access for any one of you who would like to read it.  I'll be sharing link at the end of the presentation.  Our project explores the ambiguity of the term Koji, as it simultaneously used to describe a  spore and enzymatic process and a fermented ingredient.  Across different industries from fine dining to packaged foods, from small scale from  enters to global food brands, this ambiguity allows Koji to be used in multiple sometimes  contradictory ways.  In order to understand how Koji is both literally used and conceptually framed, we look  at three case studies that span differential graphic, cultural and economic context.  But the term Koji curiously still applies across all.  As both practitioners and scholars, we wanted to disentangle how Koji is been positioned  in the food world because the blurry distinction between Koji the spore, Koji the enzymes  and Koji the ingredient, plays a huge role in how it is marketed understood and consumed globally.  We conclude our research by identifying the stakes at hand and we seek to answer who benefits  from Koji's rising popularity and who is left out.  Who controls its narrative and commercialization and what this means for the future of  fermentation.  Before we get into the paper, I'd like to take a moment to share how and why I'm here speaking to you about this research today.  My journey with Koji started long before my research inquiry.  My first encounter with it was back in 2019 when I worked in restaurants as a chef  there on at a mission of service store in London.  I remember walking into the kitchen one night around one two a.m. post service just as we were closing the restaurant  and that exilerating smell of Koji growing in a small incubator by the pastry chef  made me like question what that was and what why it smelled so amazing.  Other time I was a curious observer fascinated by how chefs were using Koji to transform flavors in unexpected ways.  Then I started not this in Koji in different restaurants across different countries and contexts.  Communicated as these fungus from Japan that makes things delicious and can also reduce waste.  So as a transition into my master's research in anthropology of food, I started asking deeper questions about  how Koji moves across different cultures in the streets and markets.  A few years later I found myself in the position of a research and development chef and some of India's most reputable  restaurants and I've been directly involved in reimagining Indian cuisine through Koji base fermentation.  I was experimenting with how it's molded into local culinary traditions alongside other fermentation techniques.  So what's the hype with Koji and how has this traditional fermentation practice set in Louis Camp one  the most talked about trends in the contemporary food culture.  Next slide please.  Let's begin with some basic definitions and uses assuming that most of you here are already familiar with  but could also do with a bit of a reminder. Koji is the most widespread name for the spread geliser  is mold and other subspecies. Often associated with Japanese pantry staples like sakya,  meeting, miso and soy sauce to the latest decades colony trends like hyperlocal miso's zero waste  garams, Koji base secretary and more. It's enzymatic power makes it special as  amylases convert starches into sugars adding sweetness and aid in fermentation.  Proteuses break down proteins into amino acids giving us the umami taste and lipases break down  fats adding complexity to texture and flavor. In simple terms Koji makes food more delicious,  bio-available and nutritious. Next slide please.  So I like to think of Koji as his tiny chef hiding and put makers leaves just like rata to  eat um apologies for the slightly misleading image I was just trying to get AI to generate  something along these lines. So our international understanding of Koji has moved from traditional  Japanese fermentation to be in a global food innovation tool due to his contributions to health  and sustainability, marketed as a source of producing zero waste and plant-based alternatives.  Food innovation appearing in R&D labs of fine dining restaurants, the popular ads is used with a  main one that keeps appearing in our research being normal and a flavor enhancement often called  a natural MSG now used in industrial food production which I will get into in the slides to follow.  Next slide please. So while we often associate Koji with Japan, similar microbial cultures exist  across different fermentation traditions that it is important to map the cultural and microbial  diversity of Koji. Koji is not a single thing. It is a family of friends that varies by region,  species and application. This map of a Spedula's Aureze, a borrowed from the Koji al-Kimibook,  shows how Koji relates to other fermentation starters in East Asia, particular Korea and China.  Actually, for his mentions of Koji, a fan of the Qingmingya al-Shui, an agricultural and  cyclobedia of the 6th century which was brought to Japan from China in the late 700s.  Their several meats around how Koji has come about in Japan.  Some believe it was an accidental byproduct of steam rise being left in a humid place resulting  in the sweet alcoholic beverage or to have been an objective trade between China and Japan.  In China, the term Chu meaning mother culture refers to broader range of microbial  starters, not just as Spedula's Aureze in isolation. Although not mentioned on this map,  variations of Koji like starters are also a big part of the tribal cultures in Northeast India,  and there's over 35 names and variations of it which I got to explore further through my work  and life in India over the past two years. Actually, Paiyal's talk,  Kauber from Mente, on Koji Kaun earlier on Sunday, was exactly about this Indian starters.  So why this matters? Koji is diverse. It's meaning an application shift across cultures and  industries and it's identity is fluid. Even with Inchipan, it refers to different fermentation  processes and ingredients. As Koji spreads globally, understanding its roots helps us navigate  how these use and market it today. Koji is both deeply traditional and highly adaptable  and that's why continuous to evolve in exciting ways. Next slide, please.  So Koji's discovery wasn't the result of deliberate invention. Rather, it was what historian  Eric Radko's a happy accident as Rice farmers first started using Koji in its wild,  unrefined form as he would grow by tap-sharing it from Rice fields like seeing in the image I shared  there that was generally shared with us by Marika Gruen. So it would appear as this black  ball on the Rice Brown and people initially would think it's a pest so they would just remove it.  So perhaps in that way, by accidentally leaving it in their kitchens, they realized that  overnight it transforms. Over time, this accidental discovery was domesticated, refined and  ultimately capitalized upon both economically and culturally and I shall explain myself in slides to  but there's a picture also of pure Koji's force as solved by Japanese manufacturers.  Next slide, please. So now you may be wondering how Koji's domestication and glorification came  into being. Here is a copy of a declaration by the Bruin Society of Japan, officially  recognized in Koji as Japan's National Fanga in 2006. The purpose of these declaration, I quote,  was to send the information of technology and the culture of Koji Fanga from Japan to the world  for the production of useful materials in wide-ranging fields, including pharmaceutical products.  Along with this, Japan introduced a unique Kanji character for Koji as in on the slide to  distinguish Japanese Koji from the Chinese equivalent. Next slide.  So a little bit of context of how the Japanese government came into putting this  imposition in place. In the 1960s, there was a nationwide aflatoxin scared caused by  spreadulose flasso, a toxic relative of Koji, which sparked widespread concern over food safety.  Scientists responded by deliberately separating the two species and therefore a spreadulose  orizer today's Koji was framed as a safe domesticated species exclusive to Japanese breweries.  While aspergillous flasso, it's toxic cousin was cast as wild and toxic and harmful  naturally occurring in rice fields. Meanwhile, news outlets spread fear about aflatoxins in home made  missile, but large-scale Japanese fermentation industries remain unquestioned.  These double-standard ultimately reinforced Japan's industrial control over Koji,  ensuring that only brewery controlled aspergillous erasso was considered safe.  While this distinction fueled modern fermentation innovation,  allowing further experimentation with Koji, Japan's classification of Japanese Koji  grown on the controlled environment as the safe option shaped global regulations.  Until this day, although Koji species originally derived from the wild in nature,  only aid approved manufacturers in Japan are allowed to produce and sell Koji,  raising questions about who defines, uses, and profits from Koji today.  Therefore, we argue that Koji's national status is not just about tradition.  It's about power, frame, safety, and economic control.  Next slide. Next slide, please.  Oh, sorry. One back. Now you might not immediately associate Koji with scientific innovation  beyond food, but his role has expanded far beyond traditional fermentation.  Historian, Victoria Lee, describes the shift as the metabolic engineering of Koji.  Where Koji went from being a simple household ferment to become in a key player in industrial  scientific advancements. In the 1960s, Japanese scientists discovered that Koji could produce  glutamic acid, the main compound in MSG, monosodyom glutamate, leading to large scale  production by companies like Aginalmoto. Koji moved from home kitchens to full laboratories  where scientists refined his enzyme for precision fermentation. The same fermentation techniques  were later used to develop antibiotics, including strings like penicillium, used in penicillin,  and structural mice used in other medical treatments. As Exorio Lee explains, Koji's usefulness  has always driven its evolution, whether in food, medicine or biotechnology. Even as innovation  emerged, Koji remains an essential tool in human progress. Next slide, please.  And this is the book by Victoria Lee for those of you who are interested in reading more about  the topic because I feel like it's a very much unexplored topic and side of Koji.  Next slide, please. We are in an opportunistic moment for Koji. The global rise in fermentation awareness  has created new possibilities for its use and commercialization. However, with this growing  excitement also comes confusion and misinformation. Koji knowledge often spreads like  game of rock and telephone as it moves across cultures in the Streason markets. It's meaning  shifts, fragments, and sometimes gets lost in translation. We argue that Koji's ambiguity as a  spore, as an enzymatic process and as an ingredient, is what enables is increasing global  popularity. Strategic storytelling opportunities are marketing and branding. It's  transformation into a luxury product and questions about human micro relations in a capitalist  food system. Next slide. Koji sometimes is spreadulose, as spreadulose is sometimes Koji,  and the two terms are often used interchangeably, leaning to confusion in the international hybrid  foodscapes. To explore this further, we examine three case studies that show how Koji functions  both materialy as a spore, as an ingredient and a process in technique and discursively as a branding  strategy. The case studies consist of a Koji-based chocolate from India, a vegan,  mayonnaise alternative made with Koji, in Japan, and the US, and Koji-fermented hot sauce in the UK.  Each case that it was chosen based on four key factors that Koji is used in novel,  non-traditional settings, that the product remains familiar to everyday consumers,  help in reposition on reimagining a favorite snack or condiment, and it's trained as a disruptive  future-proof innovation. These particular products were chosen on the basis of varied company size and  scale, reflections of leadership behind innovation, and the dispun multiple continents from the  UK to India, Japan to the US. Through our case studies that is examining how Koji is marketed  and framed for different audiences, how it's meaning is often misunderstood or oversimplified,  and how it becomes a commodity shaped by economic and cultural forces.  Ultimately, our research critically examines how selective narratives,  fine dining trends and power dynamics shape Koji's identity in the global marketplace.  Next slide, please. So our face case study is based on a Koji-fermented chocolate bar  developed by Sabko, one of India's most popular specialty coffee and craft chocolate brands.  Sabko was the first ever company, at least through our knowledge, to ferment Koji's cocoa using  Koji instead of or rather in addition to relying on naturally or caring,  lactic acid and acidic acid bacteria and yeast present in fresh cocoa.  I picked this bar up myself a couple of years back when it was first launched as a limited  edition product, as part of an experimental series that Sabko developed at the time called  fermentation fantasies. So as part of that series, I had different chocolate bars where  cocoa was fermented alongside other fruits, like a passion fruit special or a mango special  and so on and so forth. Their beautiful packaging makes the use of Koji explicit,  featuring Japanese candy characters for Koji chocolate, as well as a direct translation in Hindi  and Udo characters. The two most widely spoken languages in India. When we interviewed the  person who developed this product for Sabko, the director of Koji, Prisanna Gudi, he explained that  as their way of keeping authenticity of Japanese culture and giving back to that.  Prisanna shared that the inspiration behind the Koji chocolate came from his exposure to Koji  fermented coffee, a concept, a white spread by Christy and Ferran dating back 2019 and  Christy and actually shared his process on Koji Kone in 2023. You can still access the recording  of his talk through your Koji Kone ticket. So after successfully developing different  batches of Koji fermented coffee, they thought why not try Koji and cocoa. He credits Koji  as being a driving force behind innovation stating that Koji sparks different ideas for new flavors.  The value added proposition of Koji here is twofold. It leverages the perception of quality associated  with Japanese craft and it introduces Koji as a novel fermentation technique in chocolate making.  So how is this a new disruptive game changer? The chocolate was first launched in Mumbai  India's most cosmopolitan and gentrified city. At a time when Koji fermentation was just at the  beginning of its appearance in a few high-end restaurants in India but barely anywhere in the consumer market.  The novelty of Koji in this chocolate happens at farm level, as our interlocutor described,  where cocoa beans are inoculated with Koji on site before being processed into chocolate.  So please let's move on to the next slide. I just wanted to zoom in on the fermentation process  as it appears on their packaging and there's a title there that says Koji yeast.  Which is conflicting as we know that Koji is a fungus and arguably this statement can lead  into confusion and misinformation especially to an audience that is new to Koji.  When we asked for further explanation on what this Koji yeast makes was about,  some people was unable to disclose further details. Next slide please.  Here's some really cool pictures that Sabko kindly shared with us so it's very interesting to see  Koji's pores or this yeast makes that they have developed on this fresh cocoa substrate.  And the next slide. So while the entire storytelling and naming of the product is designed based  on the idea of connecting in the end Japan, we come to question where does Japan feed in at all.  Notably, these limited edition chocolate was priced 25% higher than the regular specialty  cocoa bars which themselves cost twice as much as conventional dark chocolate made by mass market  chocolate manufacturers. The key takeaway from this case study is the fact that  discursively Koji is only used as a marketing tool while materially the actual fermentation process  remains questionable. As there is little transparency on how exactly Koji or their so-called Koji  yeast transforms cocoa. Next slide please. Our second case study is of Koji Mayo,  a regional tentative to egg-based mayonnaise launched in 2023 in Japan as a collaboration between  Inetua Gave Sakebiri of August City and Hakohab. Hakoha translates to fermentation in Japanese.  Ephemmentation focused initially founded by Takashi Sato and eighth generation Tamari producer  president of Sanjay International one of the biggest soy sauce brands in the U.S., also a generous  supporter of Koji Koji throughout the years. And sponsor. What makes this product unique is that  it's made from sakales, a byproduct of the sakamek and process that is traditionally considered  waste. In an interview with Takashi Sato, he explained that when the product was first launched in Japan,  it was originally named Hakoha Mayo but as it was attendant for export and sales in the U.S.,  they had to be considered of the terminologies used. They found that American consumers were  and familiar with Hakoha and Kasu Mayo, Kasu Bay in the Japanese word for sakales, it was another  option but Kasu was not widely recognized either and some people dislike the idea of a product made  from discarded byproducts. Therefore they went ahead with Koji Mayo instead.  This highlights how the use of the term Koji has been adopted for global consumers,  sometimes by alternate name and meaning to feed new cultural and commercial contexts.  Next slide, please.  So Takashi Sato did acknowledge that I quote, thanks to the achievements of restaurants like  no mind Denmark, there is a growing interest in Koji fermentation among top chefs in the United  States in Europe. He also shared with us that Sanjay has partnered up with three  Michelin Starastron 11-Marii-Somparking New York to develop these Koji-based products that  corn show you and the black bean tamarii. That are significantly priced higher than  regular like soy sauce you would pick up from a supermarket. Next slide, please.  So the real novelty lies in the ability to transform food waste in this case sakales into an  edible desirable condiment effectively up-sackling food waste. It is now being marketed beyond Japan  targeting the US as an alternative to a traditional mayo. The Kashi Sato also shared that the  goal is not just to sell mayo but to also eventually shift production from the US sorry to the US  from Japan encouraging soccer producers to adopt these practices in their premises repurposing  sakayabai products instead of discarding them which is a really nice initiative. He also acknowledged  that due to his high price Koji mayo will remain a niche product specialized for gourmets,  I quote, rather than the mass market. So the key takeaway from these case studies the fact that  discursively Koji is only used as a marketing tool. While, laterally, the product is based on  a fifth almost life of Koji as it came from Koji's force turning into Koji rise,  then being mixed into this sakayabru turning into sakayabai and then we have liz mayo.  Let me know if I missed any of the lives of Koji. Next slide please.  Third case study is on the shell drink and shell drink Koji fermented hot socks,  sauce launched in the UK in 2022 by the two brothers.  Mailing shell drink, world renowned psychologist, author of entangled life and cosmo shell  and ecological music composer in collaboration with formerly London, now everything based  Koji master Jonathan Hobbe of cultured London. Next slide please.  Unlike the previous two case studies Koji in this case is not explicitly marketed in the  products name. Instead it appears as an ingredient in the list in the name of Shio Koji,  explaining that it comprises of rise and is by Julius Arreza, marked organic as well.  Our favorite Koji based salt condiment. Next slide please.  So the shell drink brothers call these double fermentation process, combining  lots of fermented chili peppers with shio Koji, blending two different microbial techniques.  On their website they describe Koji as a specialist fungus that makes everything taste better.  In the conversation with the brothers they explained that they tried to sell Koji or a  culture rise with a spiritual smold with people might not become full with some indigenous mold.  He's not going to be such a turn on, Merlin said. Instead they elegantly describe  fermentation as a way of domesticated decomposition. They leverage the growing global fermentation  movement to highlight Koji's culinary potential. Rather than focusing on this microbial  origins, they admitted we wouldn't know about Koji unless it had been celebrated in use in Japan for  so long. A celebration not just of Japan but a celebration of the diasporic world of gastronomes,  like Noma is a big example. Unlike the other two case studies where Japanese elements are used  in branding and naming of the product, in this hot sauce, there's no reference of Japan anywhere  in the market in communications. The only link this product has to Japan is the spores which are  sourced from Japanese suppliers directly linked to Japan's fermentation heritage.  So the key takeaway from this case study is the fact that,  discursively, the use of Shio Koji is being made explicit, which is very much  on point with a forming which Koji is used. Malmaterially, Shio Koji as a product of Koji,  which is a product of Koji, which gives life to another product through a secondary fermentation.  And now let's watch a little video which I find very special and I thought it could be a good  break from you listening to me speak.  Great, so that was an imagination of the two brothers creating special hot sauce in a very  magical environment. Let's move on to the next section, please.  So I'd like to take a moment to take us back to these years Koji Koji,  being tradition meets transformation. As a cross-all three case studies, Koji serves as a symbol  of culinary innovation. He calls transformation. In today's fermentation, focus gastronomic scene.  Companies strategically use the term Koji to enhance their global status,  social responsibility or product appeal. However, as we've seen, it's diverse using  across different contexts can sometimes be ambiguous. By analyzing Koji's material  discursive properties, meaning both its physical applications and stories told around it,  we identify three major themes. That off strategic storytelling, how Koji's meaning is shaped  from marketing. The algorithmization using Koji to create premium distinctive products and lastly,  human micro-oprelations, position in Koji as a tool for alternative food futures. These  same stone exist in isolation. They feed into each other, shaping Koji's transformation in the  global foodscapes. Next slide, please. In our first thing, Koji is more than just an ingredient.  It is a branding tool. Companies strategically frame it as a score,  process an ingredient or an innovation, to shape consumer perception and product positioning.  Rans emphasize different aspects of Koji depending on their audience, and some highlight  Japanese tradition and craftsmanship while others frame it as a sustainable zero-weight innovation.  And some market it as a flavor enhancer by linking it to familiar condiments like Miso,  soy sauce or kimchi. Koji's global boom isn't equally accessible. Large brands and  finite in restaurants shape its image of them sight-lining small-scale fermenters.  High-end restaurants reinforce its exclusivity and Western brands adjust their messaging to make  go to more approachable to unfamiliar consumers. Koji's identity is flexible, but who controls  its story and who benefits from the reinvention is what we're trying to figure out through our project.  Next slide, please. Now you may wonder why this matters. The way Koji's name the market  is not neutral. It shapes what consumers understand about Koji and who is seen as an expert  implementation. As Koji becomes more globalized, more premium and more strategically framed,  we should ask who controls the narrative and who gets left out. And the key takeaway becomes  who gets to define Koji and who and how it's talked about affects who benefits from its rise.  Next slide, please. We then move on to our second theme, Mara Baikogi,  has evolved from a common fermentation tool into symbol of exclusivity and gourmet taste.  Whether framed as giving back to or boring from Japan,  is association with Japanese tradition and craftsmanship has made it a strategic asset in global  food market. We argue that these belongs to the phenomenon of argumentization,  which is further driven by Koji's use in various iron d-labs of fancy restaurants and high-end  special products, reinforcing its elite status. In fact, all Koji based products in our three-case  studies are priced more than triple from the average cost of similar commodities. Reflecting  Koji's ability or rather people's power over Koji to transform every day foods into luxury  indulgences. Next slide, please. So who gets to use and benefit from Koji? It's association with  highly priced products and fine dining restaurant settings made limited accessibility for home  cooks and small-scale fermenters. Its commercialization raises questions about who controls  its production, knowledge and profit. Koji's expansion is exciting, but it also reflects economic  and cultural divides in fermentation bringing us back to the same overarching question of who  gets to participate and who gets left out. Next slide, please. Lastly, in our third theme,  Koji appears to be human control tool, but is also an active participant in fermentation.  Yet, it still finds itself under the scrutiny of humans who organize microbes into  categories of utility being helpful or harmful reinforcing mechanistic view of microbial life.  This narrative often ignores inequalities in access to Koji knowledge, spores and markets.  Viewing microbes as tools for human benefit reinforces an extractive mindset where Koji is treated  as an endlessly adaptable tool for human needs. Even at small scales Koji's monitored and manipulated  by adjusting its temperature, humidity and substrates, twin-able its growth.  Hence its classification, posed the afla toxin scared we talked about earlier,  and is distinction from other relative microbes that humans have been captured for centuries  from nature, presents Koji as its highly specialized tool of metabolic engineering,  making Koji-based fermentation stand out from other categories in fermentation.  Next slide, please. We say for our invited to rethink human microbrelations,  Koji is an active participant, not just the positive ingredient, humans control Koji's growth,  but this is part of a broader economic and industrial force.  The commercialization of Koji raises questions about access, power and ethics.  As Koji spreads globally, we must ask, how can we recognize microbial labor while ensuring  fair and equitable fermentation practices?  The next slide, please. Koji's global rise is closely tied to what  head-up axon and Stefan Helmreg described as the microbial moment. At time when chefs,  scientists and food producers are increasingly fascinated by the role of microbes and  shading flavor, health and sustainability. This fascination has led to new possibilities for Koji,  aligning with the rise of fermentation progress gastronomy. But this isn't just about  food trends, Koji's identity has shifted from what Victoria Lady describes as a symbol of  culture, identity and heritage to an instrument of metabolic engineering. In other words,  Koji is no longer just a traditional ferment. It's now a tool for scientific precision,  culinary reinvention and market expansion.  Next slide. Get with this global excitement comes a history we cannot ignore.  There's a longstanding pattern of Western chefs and food adventures,  parachuting into East Asia, extracting knowledge and repackenate as something new.  As philosophy leaves the healthcare describes, terms like authentic and novel, often serve as  standing or for othering, exoticizing traditional knowledge while profiting from its reinvention.  So as we embrace this new world of microbial possibilities, we should also ask who controls  the narrative, who benefits from Koji's reinvention and how do we recognize and respect the  cultures that have long practiced fermentation without reducing them to a trend?  What I'd like you to take away from this is a favorite quote by historian Eric Graft,  who recognizes Koji as a fungus with his own agenda that may not always align with the way people  try to mobilize it. Next slide please.  So how does Koji use misuse and its knowledge transfers can't matter as New York Koji products travel  globally? Koji is more than just an ingredient, it's a powerful concept. It's not just a mold,  it's also a process, a flavor enhancer and a cultural symbol. Understanding how Koji is framed,  as a tradition, innovation and marketing tool helps navigate its expanding role in food.  In today's globalization, Koji has shifted from an everyday fermentation tool to a high-end  gourmet product. This shift influences who gets to use it, profit from it and define its future.  Smalls go from mint to the vases, big brands. Lastly, the stories we talk about Koji's  shape is future. The way Koji is marketed as a sustainable premium or traditional product affects  consumer perception and industry trends. By recognizing Koji's history, labor and cultural roots,  creators can use ethically and innovatively Koji in new products.  And the last slide please. As we have seen throughout this presentation, Koji is more than just  the sports or an ingredient, it's a concept, a process and a marketing tool. It's ambiguity,  always allows it to be used in many ways for hyper-experimentation,  global commerce and the branding of high-value food products. But as Koji's spread beyond  its cultural roots, we need to stay aware of the fine line between appreciation and fetishization.  At a deeper level, viewing microbes as near tools reinforces a mindset of human superiority  all over a human life. When we treat Koji as something we can fully control, we erase its complexity,  reducing Koji the sport and Koji the ingredient to the same thing when in reality  they serve different purposes for both humans and the environment. We argue that these hierarchies  are human-made. They justify extracting value from microbes for the benefit of selected fuel.  But fermentation isn't just about human innovation, it's about collaboration with species.  So Redden seeking Koji as a passive tool, we should recognize its active role in shaping flavors,  cultures and sustainability of the mouth species world.  By acknowledging microbial agency, we open to new ways of thinking about fermentation as  a multi-species relationship rather than just another industry for human control.  Koji's global rise presents an exciting future for food. But who benefits, who controls it,  and who gets left out are the question we must keep asking, especially within a community like Koji  call. Koji's story is still being written, but the way we frame it will shape its future.  Thank you and let's go to the next slide.  This is for you to scan if you wish to read the article and go further into more details.  And all references are there too.  Sorry, I mean, but you've so much that was really fascinating.  That gave me so much to think about.  Thank you, Eric.  I'm just going to leave this.  You are put up for a little bit longer in case you look so much and it.  I'm just so fascinating.  Just towards the end of your presentation when you were talking about how these terms  authentic and novel can be used as a way to other food.  I never really thought about before. I was really fascinating.  Yes, thank you.  Then I just want to toss this comment up here real quick.  I think thinking about Koji as a collective consciousness, thinking of Koji as a living being  helps to avoid a mechanistic sort of like objectifying mindset.  Yeah, and I think that's sort of the touches like exactly on what you've been talking about this  morning.  Yes, absolutely, because I mean this conversation is not just about  criticizing what the risk can be but it is also about open and conversation about how we can enable  like a different food future.  Thank you.  Absolutely.  And then so one sort of, I don't know if there's going to be like an answer to this question.  Or that will be able to get time to today. But like in your opinion, like who  gets to call themselves an expert when does that become something that you can label yourself?  Or is that something that other folks have to sort of put that label on you? What are,  yeah, what are your thoughts on that?  Yeah, that's a difficult question. I mean, some people like don't like to call themselves  experts and maybe they don't even like being called experts, but I feel like once many people  acknowledge you as an expert without you explicitly asking for it, then automatically perhaps you  are an expert in one way or another. But in terms of our case studies and the larger discussion  and the research that we going to further detail in our paper, that is not limited to the case  studies, of course. It is about sharing like the idea of who is teaching Koji out there,  who is able to access information because perhaps Koji classes might be very expensive.  So thanks to organizations like Koji Kwon, Koji knowledge becomes much more accessible.  So I believe it's more about being humble about it and being open to being judged and learning  from your peers and conversations like this are very helpful also to me and everyone else who  gets to come out here and present because any questions from the audience help us criticize our perspective.  In fact, what spark they interest behind these article with Maya was her presentation a couple of  years ago was a lot about enzymes and we thinking about enzymes, I wrote out to her about it and  then we thought, well, let's research more about it and get a different perspective.  That's what gave birth to this paper.  I'm so awesome. Yeah, like that. Yeah, like who that is such a tricky question, sort of like  think about who gets to call themselves an expert. I do really like your definition of that there.  So another question that I had. So you're talking a lot about the sort of like industrialization  and the like mechanization of like Koji and sort of like fermentation in general.  What do you see a sort of like the pros and cons of that because clearly there can be like pros of  sort of like being able to scale up these things out of good for communities, but they're also  clearly there can be cons if there are if like the knowledge is not being shared or  credit is not being given. So what do you see as like sort of the ups and downs of big fermentation?  So the pros of course is that Koji and not just Koji like the case within the other type of  artisan framework that is able to then expand into scale makes it more available for a larger  audience to try and eventually seek and crave for and adopt in their diets and perhaps the bigger  the scale the lower the price can be. So it makes it more accessible to people. At the same time though  we see things like very commonly soy sauce based on very cheap price because they're actually  not soy sauce because they're full of additive, flavorings, colorants and they they're no longer  what they are supposed to be even though they claim to be that. So that's not the case of course  with what was there on the case studies but that is the cone that is the downside of processes  and traditions being forgotten and needs to be presented and then the general public only gets to  consume what they can afford and what is put out there in their face. So there can be a lot of  misconceptions that develop with wrongly marketed and produced products and also as we were  discussing in the paper perhaps the ability of smaller scale from mentors to produce some of  these products because for example building a Koji factory my you require you know $100,000  upfront investment. So not many of us kind of for that right although perhaps we have the knowledge  and the passion and the love to do that it's a huge task yeah. So another another question that I had  so through all of these through the three case studies that you were highlighting during your talk  you mentioned that like the chocolate company was not like something like the most like  transparent about their practices did you research it you find that other companies were sort of  hesitant to share how they were like actually using Koji? I mean not particularly to our case studies  I feel like it was a little bit more straightforward with of course we don't have the recipe to  how the Koji may have been used but at least it's clear that it was leaves and then in the case of  the hot sauce it is clear that it's Shio Koji that even the people behind the production now  have recently confirmed to me so it's pretty straightforward. Yeah so I guess it depends  on the type of innovation and the people behind it and also the time we interviewed the company  that does the chocolate you there was still testing the method for like laboratory results and  etc so maybe that just didn't want to jump ahead of themselves and over share things that  had not just clarified yet. God awesome and then so I'm just looking through my notes around real quick  another sort of thing that like a theme you're bringing up throughout your presentation is like  Koji's ability to adapt to like adapt to the context in which it's sort of like put in  in which it's like living in at the moment. So I thought that was really interesting and it's sort of  reminded me of Robin's presentation earlier in the week. He was referencing like  blanking on exactly what he was from but there was the connection in there. He was speaking about how  he if I may fill in I think what you were thinking about uh Robin was talking about how he's using  shifting into directly using only Scottish ingredients like oat and only using the Japanese  Koji's floors in the product and that's the only like foreign thing about it and finally enough  like Robin is now working with Jonathan who does the Shio Koji for the hot sauce. So these like  huge world becomes so small once you start connecting the dots. Oh and then this is  uh this is a question from Melissa that just popped up so I just want to bring this on to the  screen. So are there trends in the online and social media representations of Koji that you find  like more or less problematic? Sometimes I find problematic um they're way  like Koji is shared about on different like education platforms not like Koji going of course  some other like Instagram pages are shared like these infographics and knowledge uh posts about  what Koji is and what is soy sauce and what is show you and then we see like there's an overlap  and this maybe a confusion created about the distinction of this product therefore there are  origins and their production methods so I think more and more education is required and the best we can do  as people who are actively trying to learn more about Koji is to point out these uh discrepancies  sometimes and perhaps open the eyes of those who may be ignorant something.  So I mean I think that ties perfectly well into this comment so thank you for  hearing about my as collab and it's great to see um they're both field asking questions and  nudging us to ask questions in the process as well. Thank you.  So one uh yeah I have um sort of one my final question for you and then yeah folks in the chat  thoughts and more questions and um so you travel a lot um as part of your job  and just like in your life so how have like your travels impacted the way that you see like  sort of like the globalization or like colonization of like Koji and fermentation as a whole  like how are you seeing it sort of use in like these different places that you're going to  or they battle. Yeah maybe I don't know if I would include the word colonization in that  narrative because then it opens uh windows for like other questions and other conversations but  if you mean to say how I see Koji being translated and adopted in other contexts  I think it's largely for the better because I say it earlier um we see Koji being introduced to  Kozines and regions that is not like native to or maybe people don't know there is relative  species that are native to them that they could use like how I see now in India there's a lot of  relative uh species 2 Koji that are found in these fermentation starters the balls but people still  tried by sports from Japan to make Koji and other products when they could like literally be  sourcing it from uh tribals if they can in India itself so there is an opportunity to create  something that of course is more um proved safe because that is um a large scare especially when you're  doing it at a commercial level and you want to make sure you know what you're selling so there is  that's the pro of being able to source this force from Japan that are very isolated and very clear  on what sport does what at the same time as I said it could be the case that the more people learn  about their surroundings and their environment that might be able to produce their own um  starters eventually like maradas and sheep shared in previous Koji Koen presentations  and also one thing I wanted to add is perhaps I've seen Koji very misduced in a lot of  kitchens and it was sometimes concerning like it was a p.a.n and that's just like blue or red more  because obviously it was not grown appropriately so I think lack of information and education can  also run risk in Koji productions and therefore what we are feeding people because they might not  cause you like any mediated reaction but there's some affect oxins that might be present  in like wrongly produced Koji products. Come on, sure. So sweet, thank you.  Alright, I'm just gonna scroll through our comments make sure I didn't miss anything.  Yes. This is such a fascinating talk. I'm gonna have to watch this again like a few times.  Thank you. Yeah, I think it was a bit of a mouthful. Trying to condense the whole  paper and like what doing this.  Alright, I think um I think we're looking pretty good on questions.  Alrighty, thank you so much for joining us this morning. This evening. Thank you. Thank you, Eric  and yellow farmhouse for making this possible again for us. It's the fifth year and I'm so  excited to be part of this and thank you everyone for showing up to listen to my talk.  Alright, thank you and everyone you can follow a link on Instagram,  um, at our Instagram right here, no magic for a mentee step. Alright, um, a link I'll remove  you from the stream and then we'll wrap up this morning's session. Sure, thanks Eric.  Alright, thank you.  Alrighty, so that wraps up once again another fantastic session for KojiCon 2025.  Tradition meets transformation. I'll only once again thank you so much for sharing all of that.  It really gives us a lot of a lot to think about. So once again, really appreciate you sharing.  And as always, um, if you want to learn more about what we're doing over here at the  L of Farmhouse Education Center, you can check out our website at yellowfarmhouse.org as well as our  Instagram at yellowfarm CT. To stay up to date on all things KojiCon, you can follow our  Instagram at Koji.com. If you have any questions or comments at all about the conference,  feel free to reach out to us at info at yellowfarmhouse.org. So we do have one more presentation today.  So we are going to be joined by a meal samson. Today at 1 p.m. Eastern Standard Time for  presentation called Old Foods New Forms, a framework for conceptualizing the diversification of  traditional products through gastronomic innovation. So we're going to be joined by a meal samson of  the European Miso Institute for that to be sure to tune in at 1 p.m. VST. So about how I'll sign  off for the morning. And I shall see everyone this afternoon. Alright, peace.