 Most of us would prefer to sip and savor good wine, not wheel and deal in it.  But wine is fast becoming an increasingly sought after alternative
 investment.  So maybe I shouldn't have even opened it.  After all, who knows how much it might be worth in three years or even 30.  This month,
 two auction houses, Christie's and Dobia Shovtsky held wine auctions in Switzerland  and a new wine storage space, a kind of wine cellar meets bank
 opened in Laupern.  We visited Dobia Shovtsky in Bern, which sold all of the 1,000 bottles it was offering in auction.  Most of the bordeaux and burgundies,
 the most coveted wines worldwide.  One of the highlights was a bottle of Romane Conti Grand Gru from 1986 estimated at 6,000 Swiss francs  but sold for 10,000.
   That introduced me to you.  Let's say I would buy a bottle for 8,000 and I see this as an investment.  Is there a certain time-raged or duration that
   I have to keep this investment in order for it to be profitable?  I think it's in nature of every passion investment that it's a long-term investment.
   You might have a market chance to sell it very quickly but usually you hold it and you wait for the market chance.  When you go to a passion investment,
   it's absolutely crucial that you make your homework.  You have to educate yourself, you have to educate the big knowledge.  If you just buy randomly any
   wine, any watch, you will never have any profit.  In every market it's the blue chips, it's the 1% that makes the difference.  So you as an auction house
   you've been selling wine for a while already  but why is it important to not just offer art or watches but to diversify?  There are so many fields that
   have been traditional collection fields like antiquities, 19th century paintings  that they're just dying and disappearing.  So for an auction house it's
   crucial to find other collectibles that replace this  and collectibles like wine, watches is fantastic because you have a global market for it.  If you have
    a pottec philippe, you have bias from China to Russia, from Switzerland to Norway.  Everybody is interested. Same to the wine, it's a fantastic field
    to open the market internationally.  So once you bought a decent bottle of wine, the question arises of where to store it.  And I'm here with Nikola
    Stemfle.  Your family has been in the wine business since 1904.  So I wonder why did you open a wine bank now?  We found out that people do not have
    enough space for the storage of wine.  So we wanted to give them the opportunity to store the wines really properly  and in the perfect climate-sized
     cellar.  We have the perfect temperature. It's between 14.5 and 16 degrees constantly.  And also we have 75 to 85 degree humidity.  And it's actually
     a huge, a huge wine storage fridge.  The compoundings they have from 70 bottles roughly to 1500 bottles capacity.  So a total of how many 30,000 bottles?
     30,000 bottles.  Could be stored here.  Here, here.  Here we have a size M where we have space for roughly 240, 300 bottles.  Okay.  And here we have size
     XS.  XS?  So you have XS, M, L and XL.  Okay.  And how much would you pay for XS?  XS, it's 150 francs per year.  And the most expensive is the one for
     1500, 1600 bottles for 900 francs per year.  Which is behind you.  Which is behind me, yes.  Which is free.  You can actually let cases deliver here.
     And we're going to put it in the locker or you can let it send.  You can buy wine via us.  And we store it here directly.  You can sell wine via us.
      So actually we really wanted to have a really transactional kind of storage here.  We can all combine that via an app that we programmed.  We build
      with memory.  Investing in wine seems to be a bit of a trend.  But compared to other assets, it doesn't really, doesn't pay dividend.  Investors have
      to pay for storage.  And it requires some time until you can liquidate a collection of wine,  which is maybe four or five months or so.  So there are
      some disadvantages why I still do it.  Investing in wine should be considered really as a passion asset.  So it is one asset class that is just not buns
      or shares or real estate.  So should consider it as a passion asset.  That's the first thing.  And then it is really important to know that it's very
      volatile investing in wine.  It should never be your primary investment.  Why is it so volatile?  It is volatile because demands change quite quickly.
      Scores of critics change.  That's a price driver.  Different factor really changed the price of a bottle or a case of wine.  Over the past 10 years, the
       prices for fine wine have gone through some significant swings.  Philippe Mazette, professor at the School of Hospitality in Luzanne,  says that
       starting in mid 2009, for instance,  prices increased thanks to new customers from China,  as well as the beginning of the economic recovery before
       the market corrected in mid 2011.  As Mazette says from a pure investment standpoint,  fine wines retained the advantage of being only weekly correlated
       with stocks  and therefore offer significant diversification potential.  So if I want to invest in wine and have some profit,  when would it make sense
       to sell it again?  So we consider three to seven years.  And if it's a really collectible bottle,  a really rare bottle, you can still sell it in 20,
       30 years.  It pays a...  It gains a normally on value because it's getting rare and rare over the time,  because still people still drink the wine.
       So...  Is it still drinkable after 30 years?  Yes, yes, there are wines that are really delicious.  But of course you need to have the clientele  and
       the clients really to enjoy those wines.  And I think it's very important  if you consider wine as investment,  then I think you, as a person,
       you still should be interested in the wine itself.  And I think at the end, you should love the wines too.  And I think that's then going to be a
       really nice passion as it.  So you mentioned in the beginning at least three to seven years.  Why this time span?  So actually when wines are getting
       released from the winery,  in the first, let's say, two years,  the aroma's flavors and the brand and the image of the wine is maybe not formed 100%.
       So after time of, let's say, three to seven years,  you have more critics scores.  The wine is quite ready to go.  And so the bottle's getting rarer
       and rarer.  And you see there actually if you can make profit out of the wine or not.  And I think it's the most important time  to see where the bottle
       goes.  I mean where the prices are going.  What defines a price?  The price of a wine is defined by quality, of course.
       What does that mean?  Yeah,
       that's a good question.  And the taste simply the taste, the ripeness,  the balance, the overall quality of the wine.  And then you have price drivers
       like the brand,  from whom is it produced, the shattered, the producer,  the quality, the storage quality, the labels, how nice the labels are.
       So if the label is like scratch, it loses a lot of value?  Yeah, not a lot, but it's still losing a little bit of value because people that want to
       buy the bottle,  they want to have pristine bottles.  They want to have really nice bottles.  So you mentioned quality, the ripeness.  I'm just thinking
       now of the impact that maybe climate change has.  Do you see an impact?  Yes, it has an impact.  We see way higher degrees of alcohol than we saw
       10 years ago even.  It's shifting from 13 to now 15.5.  So I need to drink less to feel something?  Yes, that's true.  And also that's also a problem
       because the consumption is going down from year to year  and we have statistics from it.  But the volume on the general market is actually growing.
       But what we see also is a shift from cheaper bottles to rather more expensive bottles of wine.  Okay.  That's an interesting shift.  Can you comment
          that?  I think that people, if they're drinking a bottle of wine in the evening or on the weekends,  they rather take something quite good and just
          cheap plunk.  And climate change besides having an impact on the alcohol degree,  it also has an impact on story.  Yes, exactly.  So what we see also
           is that I mean,  summers are getting longer and longer.  And even in those in the old buildings,  the sellers take a heat and up,  which is not very
            good for storing the wines.  So that was also one of the reasons why we actually build up the seller here.  We're talking about passion investments,
              but you can also have wine as a speculative investment.  Beculative wines is a big topic.  Some brands profit from very good critics' scores or
               from a brand recognition that's  worldwide known.  Lafitte Rochard, for example, is quite a speculative wine.  And then you have volatility on
               those prices.  How much is that specific Rochard bottle?  It's around 850, 750 to 850 francs, it depends on the market.  And then how does it
               work to whom do you sell it to?  So we actually sell it on a very old school way.  We sell it via email.  We also have a website where we list
               all the wines of our clients.  So people worldwide can check the lists and if they find something interesting,  they can order it online or via
               email.  And we send out some offers and people react or they don't react.  And if they don't react, the price is too high.  It's very easy.
               And who buys these kind of bottles?  In this case, in this particular case, we have people from the Asian region.  We have people from London,
                which is a big place of fine wine.  It's a big marketplace of fine wines.  Those are very specific markets for brands that really work in these
                 kind of markets.  So it's less about what you would see in your local wine bank?  Yeah, it's less about what we would see here.  Just to wrap
                 it up, what kind of advice can you give to someone that wants to invest in wine?  To invest in upcoming producers or in underrated producers,
                 upcoming regions,  underrated winetages.  To invest in wine that you really like and to find out which one you like, you need to taste it.
                 For Cine, Monizuotaland, I'm Tani König, Chin Chin.