 Hello everyone and welcome back to CojiCon 2021.  My name is Eric Dawson and I'm the Director of Program Innovation here for the Yellow Farmhouse  Education Center.  We're a small nonprofit based here in South Eastern Connecticut and our mission is to connect  people to each other and to where their food comes from through culinary and farm-based education.  CojiCon wouldn't be possible without the generous support of our sponsors.  Specifically our cultivator sponsor this year's song, Jay, as well as our session sponsor  for this presentation, the European Miso Institute.  So today we're going to be joined by Emil Samson for a presentation called Old Food's  New Forms, a framework for conceptualizing the diversification of traditional products  through gastronomic innovation.  I'm Emil.  So born in the sunny island of Curacao and educated at Wageningen, educated in Wageningen,  the Dutch city of life sciences.  Emil Samson has cultivated a deep passion for Miso, which inspired him to co-found  the European Miso Institute.  This nonprofit organization is dedicated to bridging the knowledge gap in enhancing  the understanding of Miso within a European context.  For his master's thesis, Emil explored the effects of salt on Lupin Miso fermentation  and aroma formation, a study that sparked his ongoing fascination with art and science  of fermentation.  Since then, he has applied his expertise in fungal fermentation across diverse settings,  including pop-ups, restaurants, research labs in industry.  And line with the theme tradition meets transformation.  Emil is thrilled to share his unique perspective on the challenges and opportunities surrounding  the conceptualization of innovations and traditional fermented foods.  And you can learn all about what Emil is doing on his personal Instagram, Emil's food  is ventures.  You can also check out the European Miso Institute as well through their Instagram right  over here.  So if that, I would love to welcome Emil Samson to our stream.  Hello, everyone.  Thank you.  I'm feeling good.  Thank you, Eric, for the warm introduction.  So let me go ahead and share my screen.  Yes, thank you.  All right.  So thanks again, everyone.  Before I begin, being here for my presentation, by now you might already have a sense  about what we are going to be talking about today.  In this talk titled, Old Foods New Forms, we will be diving into the three factor framework,  a collaborative effort between the European Miso Institute and the Center for Biosustainability  from the Technical University of Denmark.  But I'd also like to spend a few moments to introduce the European Miso Institute to those  who may not be familiar with us yet, especially in the non-European audience.  So it only feels right to start the presentation with how the European Miso Institute  or EMI came to be, because it's very origins embody the spirit of community that finds  Kojikon and the hashtag Kojibil's Community Movement.  So the Institute's co-founder, Michael and I, we initially connected through Instagram,  just to Miso enthusiasts, drawn together by our shared passion for presentation.  But our real turning point came in the summer of 2022 when we met up in a Dutch fermentation  festival, Old Roadsoy.  It was very inspiring event with moving talks from various fermentation pioneers, the likes  of summer gods, Diego Prado, Marica Runa, many other passionate experts.  And during our discussions at the festivals, surrounded by other fermentation synetics,  we had a realization.  While Miso fermentation isn't incredibly exciting craft, it remains kind of a niche in Europe,  and there was no organization dedicated to advocating for Miso or other formal fermented  products as an integral part of our food culture.  We saw this as an opportunity and a need to create something that would give Miso the  platform, it deserves not just as a culinary ingredient, but as a powerful tool in the  green transition as well.  We started as an idea between a handful of us quickly grew into something much greater.  Over the next few months, we brainstormed the track that new members and formalized our  vision.  We wrote our manifesto, launched our website, and just like that, the European Miso Institute  was born.  So EMI is not just about promoting Miso, it's about bridging knowledge gaps and reshaping  the way Europe understands and integrates fermented foods.  According to the consumer research from the health firm projects, which is kind of a European  wide survey that was done, it turns out that 46% of European consumers do not even recognize  the word Miso.  Another significant portion of them only associated maybe very vaguely with a Japanese  soup.  But we all know that Miso is so much more.  It's an nutritional powerhouse, a flavor enhancer, and a symbol of deep culinary tradition.  We believe that Miso and other umami rich fermented foods have a vital role to play in Europe  shift towards plant-based eating.  But for this to happen, Miso needs to become more than just an exotic curiosity.  It needs to become a staple.  And this will require Europeans to familiarize themselves with a new ingredient to the  point that they can integrate it into their local cuisines and cooking habits.  But it can also mean that larger scale of manufacturers will learn to incorporate Miso into  their products to enhance flavor and nutrition in a more natural and exciting way.  So to achieve a wider growth of the industry in Europe, we believe that Miso making  the Miso making process particularly for analog and experimental Miso's.  The distinction I will get to a bit later in this talk should be more academically validated  to conform its specific European food safety requirements.  To achieve this goal, we try to encourage interdisciplinary curiosity towards Miso and other products  of fungal fermentation and cross domain scientific research.  The paper we are discussing today is a perfect example of this as it can serve as a tool  for discussion among fermentation geeks.  But also as a kind of guide for someone that is less familiar with this space,  such as maybe food regulated later to navigate and understand both newer and more innovative  products of fungal fermentation as well as their historical reference with long and safe use history.  So Western food standards have traditionally been built around bacterial fermentation,  leaving mold fermentation in a gray area.  This can lead to a lot of unnecessary concerns or even regulatory barriers.  A concrete example of this is the growth and presence of Pasilai in the Koji and Miso fermentation process.  It is widely recognized that different Pasilai such as Basilas, Amilo, Lika, Fasians,  difficult name can be present and play a role in Miso fermentation.  However in Europe, the presence of Pasilas and particularly Basilasare, Sereis,  on legumes and grames is heavily scrutinized due to its potential for toxin production and the  heat stability of the spores.  If regulators apply broad food safety guidelines without a deep understanding of Miso's microbial  dynamics, small scale producers could face unnecessary challenges.  The same issue applies to anthropocopi, like anthropococospasian, which is sometimes flagged as a sign  of water contamination but can naturally occur in Miso without posing a risk as well.  And it is sometimes even able to produce some bacteria since that prevents other pathogens from  going into Miso. So even if you were to do a DNA analysis of Koji, it is likely that the analysis  will tell you that your sample contains Asperger's Flavis. Like Elliot mentioned,  it is interesting talk earlier this week. It is a potent micro-potoxin producer.  And Asperger's ORIZA is basically just a domesticated firm of Asperger's Flavis that has had key  genes for toxin production in activated through the process of domestication, but they still have  over 90% DNA similarity so that can cause this sort of confusion.  And yeah, Aspermented foods gain popularity, we need to ensure that Miso producers are equipped  with the scientific backing to prove that their products are not only safe but beneficial,  and we at the European Miso Institute would like to play a supporting role in that.  So that is why one of EMI's first major projects was to launch an open source database  with scientific literature on Koji fermentation. We wanted to create a resource that  deforementation community be it hobbyists or professionals could access to better understand the  science behind Miso and Koji as a whole. While we can't provide access to every paper due to  paywalls of the journals, we've curated a collection of the most relevant research and we invite  the community to also contribute to this. If you know any articles that we've missed  earned that you would like to include, then please do get in touch with us.  So if you are wondering about the faces behind EMI, we are currently 12 active members from  five different countries, along with a few longer term collaborators and a strong international  world of advisors. When we envisioned the European Miso Institute we had grand ambitions.  There were going to be five of simultaneous working groups that are tackling different projects  I'm a painiicy, but as it is with any grassroots efforts, we quickly learn that sustainable  growth requires patience. While there's a lot that we'd love to do, for the moment we are completely  volunteer based and we have all have to balance this work with our jobs and our lives. So therefore  we've opted for more of an organic growth path working on our online presence, doing projects that  people are members excited, such as actually this paper that we've written and collaborating where we can.  In 2024 we wanted to organize the first European Miso Summit in Brussels, which some of you might  have seen on our Instagram. However, the costs associated with the live event combined with the  cost of travel and accommodation made it difficult for other European Miso producers to commit to  joining us. And since we didn't have a sponsor for the event, the financial risk was too big  for us at this stage. So we downsized and reorganized to create a pop-up dinner, which actually  turned out a really good decision and a great success. We focused on presenting Spanish cuisine  in an exciting blend of tradition and fermented innovation. And since many of our members are  situated in different countries, it was actually the first time that many of us had met up in person,  which was really nice. And yeah, as I mentioned, we are looking for collaborations and more people  that want to join our initiative. So consider this as an open invitation that if you have any ideas  for collaborations or if you're interested in contributing to the institutes, then feel free to  get in touch with us. So yeah, I hope that you enjoyed that little introduction to our organization.  Now I'm very excited to introduce you to our project titled Old Foods New Forms, a framework  for conceptualizing the diversification of traditional products to gastronomic innovation.  So this project actually started with the idea of writing an opinion paper where we kind of  formally put into the world what we at the European Miso Institute understand Miso to be,  as well as the benefits that it has and the role that it can play in the mummification of  plant foods and the green transition as well. And we also wanted to incorporate sort of a section  that directed at future directions for research. So we started from this idea and created the  an academic working group and got in touch with Joshua Evans at the Center for Bio Sustainability  at the Technical University of Denmark who was a particularly suitable collaborator for this  project considering his work at the Nordic Food Lab and earlier academic works. So we picked  our idea to Joshua and gladly he liked it and agreed to collaborate with us. So this led us to the  first order of business, which was a very simple question or maybe it seems like a simple question  deceptively so what is Miso? Yeah we spent the following weeks having meeting after meeting still  struggling to find the definition that does justice to all that Miso is and can be and also how  it relates to other mumminess from countries' neighbouring Japan. These discussions got us thinking about  a categorical distinction between types of Miso's. By listening various different examples of Miso's  particularly the extraordinary ones and having kind of a brainstorm session together and seeing how  they related to each other. We realized that they all have different for varying extent to three  main dimensions or factors. Being their ingredients, the process by which they are made and their  sensory profile has we named the framework that eventually sprung from these brainstorming sessions  the three factor or three at framework. Though we initially created the framework to find a constructive  way to discuss how traditional analog and experimental Miso's related to each other kind of going  through some theoretical exercises it ended up suggesting an even bigger picture. But before we  dive into the framework and how it works I would like to set the stage for what makes this work  so important in our eyes and why we were struggling so much with defining Miso despite being  the European Miso Institute. So we live in an increasingly globalised world that is facing a variety  of ecological, political and cultural challenges. Many of us in this community have dealt with all  of this by uncertainty by reconnecting with our food production and traditional practices  which has led to a global fermentation Renaissance as Sandercuts likes to call it. And this is  led to the red discovery and re-appreciation of traditional fermentation techniques but as a result  of globalisation, these techniques spread around the world and are reconbigned in novel ways.  So this has many nice consequences such as the opportunity for cultural exchange to increase dietary  diversity and gut health and the maintenance of food tradition through community initiatives  other means such as fermentation tourism. However, as was discussed by Maya Hay in their critically  reflective talk last year and in some cases it can also enable the de-contextualisation and sometimes  appropriation of these traditional fermented products and with that I mean that the new practitioners  receive value without proper credit or value sharing to their originators. So it becomes clear that  as tradition needs transformation there will be practical social and cultural challenges and  a need to navigate the politics of appreciation versus appropriation. But there is also a conceptual  challenge. How do we accommodate innovation within a given product category while retaining the  ability to differentiate within that category? Let that question sink in for a second. What does it mean?  So basically if I make a sauce out of mushrooms and cogey and decide to call it a garam,  how does that affect the concept of what is a garam? How do we differentiate between this  sauce and the ancient Roman fish sauce? How do we differentiate this sauce from a mushroom show  you? As you can see the lines can get very blurry sometimes and how we seem to name things  can have a lot of implications. Interestingly we didn't find any conceptual tools or framework  that could facilitate the nuanced discussion on innovation and the growing diversification within certain  categories. So this is why we gradually shifted away from the idea of writing an opinion paper  towards developing this framework with it we hope to offer a tool to make sense of these culinary  and cultural developments in a more systemic way. This way we can move forward with innovating  without losing sight of the value of tradition and existing diversity in what Joshua like to call  both an approach rather than an eater or approach to tradition and innovation.  Okay so the stage has been set. Now it's time for me to bring back the framework and as you can see  it consists of three overlapping circles which is also called a venn diagram. Each circle represents  one key factor that shapes food products. So first you have the ingredients referring to the  main raw materials. Then there is the process referring to the overall method by which it is created.  And lastly we have the sensory profile which refers to the general sensory features that are taken  especially by members of the product originating culture to be necessary for something to be  understood as an instance of that product. Maybe a long sentence but it's actually quite simple.  If you were to create a red sauce based on ground beef and tomatoes and say this is a  bolongious but an Italian taste it and says that it tastes nothing like a traditional bolongious  then it isn't a traditional bolongious. A minute of a stupid example maybe but I hope that  it illustrates what we are trying to say. The overlap of these three factors results in seven fields  of categorization defined by how and how much they diverge from the traditional products in the center.  Next I will introduce each of the category fields and give an example of a miso that  fits the category to illustrate how the framework can be applied.  But oops I forgot that I had all of these. So yeah those are the seven category fields.  So first in the center we have traditional products that are defined by the combination of  ingredients, process and sensory profiles that are generally accepted to be the standard.  By standard we refer to an agreement within a group. It is it refers to the properties  that individuals of the originating culture with a grier necessary for an item to belong to  that product category not withholding though like some specific regional or household level differences.  These standards often have strong cultural significance and are sometimes also  legally defined and protected. This is the case in Japan where the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture  for three and fisheries defines miso as a semi solid paste of salted soybeans which is made in  which may include grains such as rice and barley and is fermented by the Koji mode as per  cellosoree's eye. The sensory profile of traditional misos can be described as umami salty sweet  slightly acidic and highly aromatic. However there are of course many traditional variations  which can be self categorized through different parameters. So one way to categorize traditional  koji is a traditional misos is by the Koji ingredients. So you have rice miso or kome miso  which is common throughout the country then there's also soy bean or maame miso which is common  in the central areas and last flavors barley or mugi miso which is more common in the southern areas.  You can also categorize by flavor and then you would get like low salt or amami so sweet  or amakuchi miso and strong or karaakuchi miso and one last way to categorize is by color and  aging period. That's where you have your red miso or acamiso which tends to be a bit older yellow miso  or can't show kome so which is a bit in the middle and then a white or shiro miso which is younger.  And as you can see even within this relatively strict definition of traditional miso there's  already a world of diversity from your sweet and fruity side kome so from Kyoto to that is  fermented for like four to five weeks using rice koji all the way to dark and complex hachimiso  they're purely on soybeans and aged all the way up to 36 months.  So next we have analog products which are defined by the standard production process and  sensory profiles and non standard ingredients. This is where you have your classic new age  miso such as nomas piso which is based on barley koji and Danish yellow peas. In this category  the ingredients typically have similar macro molecular compositions to the standard ingredients  so that the standard sensory profile can be achieved. For miso this means having a starry  koji substrate and a protein rich miso substrate typically a lebid legume and this approach has  the advantage of being able to unlock a new but familiar nomi taste while also using locally available  ingredients. Since miso is a relatively high value product and we put a lot of time and love into making  it we think that the same care should be put into sourcing your ingredients so I encourage everyone  to use the best possible ingredients for your analog miso such as organic and heritage grains  which supports logos, sustainable farmers and also the preservation of heritage seeds and biodiversity.  So another aspect that comes into play here is microbial terwar. Since miso's in this category  can be made outside of Japan where different climates have different microbiodes which also the case  for the substrates use. Since analog misos can display different microbial compositions from what  we would typically expect from a traditional miso which was nicely demonstrated in the paper titled  exploring the microbial diversity of novel misos with metagenomics also written by Joshua  Athens and his colleagues at biosystemt. So you may hear me using the term novel throughout this  talk particularly when discussing kind of more modern misos and to clarify in this context we  use the term novel to mean new and diverging from conventional approaches not in the sense defined by  the European food or FSA sorry forgot the what is the acronym is but the body FSA under  EU regulations a novel food is any food that was not consumed significantly within the EU before  May of 1997 which is like a very strict cut off and such foods require authorization before being  placed on the market. However based on our research there is sufficient evidence that food  produced with aspergillus or as I was consumed in Europe before this cut off dates and therefore as  long as modern misos adhere to the traditional production methods and using ingredients that are  not classified as novel foods they shall not fall under the EU novel foods regulation at all.  So rest assured there. So next we have category three experimental experimental products are  defined by the standard production process but with non-standard ingredients and non-standard  sensory profiles. Now this is where things start getting funky when it comes to misos.  Products belonging to this category are usually loosely inspired by the traditional products  but diverge further away from them than amylow ones. They are based on the same  fundamental processes sometimes with minor tweaks and can have similar culinary uses but involve  novel ingredients often with non-standard macromolecular compositions yielding products with even  more different sensory profiles. So in the past 15 years or so innovative chefs and fermentation  practitioners have been experimenting with miso in even more boundary pushing ways. The  sensory profile of a miso is largely defined by the enzymatic breakdown of the substrates  macromolecular components into their constituent parts as well as like some subsequent  chemical reactions and secondary microbial metabolic processes. So as a result of swapping out  soybean and rice for diverse ingredients even beyond other legumes and grains,  often yield products with distinct non-standard sensory profiles. This category also includes  crossover fermentation where two separate fermentation processes involving different microbes  are combined to create something entirely new. So one great example of this are dairy misos.  They are particularly illustrative as a presence of dairy fats and their subsequent  break down products result in the miso with very intense aromatic properties from miso and the  blue cheese. Basically almost any fat containing dairy product that you mix with coji will inevitably  go into that direction. Now why is that? Just like the species of panicillium rockophorety  involved in blue cheese making as per jettis or is I produces live bases.  Live bases break down fat into glycerone free fatty acids and these free fatty acids  they're highly reactive compounds. So they will react further into compounds like ketones,  alcohols, ethyl esters that give like a strong blue cheese aroma. Because this second part of  the process, so the first part is the enzymatic part and the second part is more of a chemical process.  It doesn't rely on a certain enzyme at all. So it doesn't have anything to do with coji  the second part. It basically means that when a lipase comes from panicillium or from other  aspergeris you will inevitably start going into this funky blue cheese direction.  So if you're interested in more of the science behind dairy misos there is a great paper by  Alexander Dunk from the University of Lachining and where I also studied and the paper is on  the crossover fermentation concept and its application in dairy miso which I would highly recommend reading.  But I digress now back to sort of the more general concept of experimental misos. In many cases  experimental misos have a risen out of a need to re-purpose side streams or to conserve excessive  ingredients in order to reduce food waste. Particularly in practitioners at home as well as sustainability  driven restaurants that seek to utilize kitchen waste and buy products and maximize flavor to their  ingredients. Then you get into things like bread misos, herb misos, even fruit misos I've seen.  In many of these cases there is not necessarily a lot of protein present so we aren't really going  into like this typical mommy focus flavor profile of a traditional miso but Koji as well as the other  health-philic microbes involved in the miso fermentation can still react with these ingredients in  interesting ways and presence of plantful salt, mix misos making still like a great way to reserve  flavors. I remember in last year's KojiCon at the recap someone mentioned a miso made from various  leftover food scraps from an event and then they baked this miso into cookies and during the  talk they were considering what to make these cookies back into a miso, effectively creating like  an infinity miso cycle and that pretty much sums up the idea behind experimental misos.  But we might be inclined to think that this is a very like Western thing to do and would  easily conclude that there are no experimental misos in Japan but this would be a very false  assumption. If we look beyond the main types of miso there are actually many regional variations  that might fall into this category. Take for example so Tetsu miso which is made by mixing Japanese  sour palm cones with unpolished rice and barley to make Koji which is then mixed with soybean  sweet potatoes and salt. This is a form of miso that has been historically produced in Japan's  Southern islands of Okinawa where soybeans were less available but other products like this  apple palm and sweet potatoes were abundant. So this shows that not experimental misos  come from outside of the standard culture which can also be referred to forms of eating  innovation as opposed toemic innovation which I will define in the next slide.  So category four is a special case because it actually is like a double category. It consists  of products that are defined by standard ingredients and process and non-standard sensory profiles.  When the non-standard sensory profile is undesirable or unintended it is a fault but when it is  desirable or intended it is an example ofemic innovation. Now if you're like me and you are  you haven't studied anthropology then this wordemic might initially confuse you but it just means  from the perspective of the originating culture as opposed to eating which refers to an outside  perspective. Soemic innovations are typically traditional products that intentionally seek to push  boundaries of the standard sensory profile from within the product standard culture. So what  is seen as traditional today has in many cases been transformed toemic innovation over time from  the traditions of yesterday. Now we consider again my miso a product ofemic innovation because it is  a variety of miso that the parts only slightly from the standard sorry it divides only slightly  from the standard white rice miso by using likely polished brown rice as ingredients for cogey making.  The rice brand contains a lot of fibers, lipids and minerals which contribute to a non-standard  flavor profile that is kind of not here and earthier. So that's an example ofemic innovation for  you the process and the ingredients are basically the same but with a slight modification  the removal of the rice polishing step we get something new and different from the standard  now bear with me for this next part because it's about to get a whole lot more sciencey  which I think that this audience may appreciate. So one of the things that I discovered during  my master thesis when I was researching the flavor compounds in this loop and miso  made with barley cogey was that besides the typical volatile compounds you would expect in the  miso such as alco's at assets and esters there was a strong presence of volatile phenolic compounds.  These compounds are typically associated with soy sauce but are usually not detected in traditional  miso. In soy sauce phenols are formed by the degradation of liquid and glycosides originating  from the cereal brand in whole wheat. As a general rule simple phenolic compounds can also be released  from other dietary fibers as well and there are many bacteria and fungi that include  gene for phenolic acid, decarboxylase enzyme which is needed to convert the phenolic acids into the  volatile form which is called a phenol derivative and based on these findings I assume that the  same thing would happen with the rice brand also leading to the release of phenolic compounds  from a dietary fibers such as is depicted here in the bottom left corner.  Yeah this forms compounds such as those that are depicted here in these compounds  coincidentally are also formed actually through pyrolysis of lignin so burning and they are also  present therefore in wood smoke and also contribute flavors to other products such as whiskey and  roasted coffee giving the scriptors that are depicted up here so kind of like smoky woody sweet and  sometimes in conclusion close like ampendela spicy flavors. So remember that we are still in this  double category. So in on the flip side of imic we have faulted miso with non standard sensory profiles  that are considered on this arable. This is an interesting section to do a little bit of troubleshooting  so feel free to drop in the comments one or some issues that you have encountered as faults  in your misos and we can discuss those later. Okay things off with something that I expect that  many of you have experienced before and what I see a lot around me particularly when it comes to  making very experimental misos is the presence of compounds like ethyl acetate which is an  ester formed by the reaction of ethyl mal with the cdic acid that can give you a miso distinct  and very persistent nail polish remover smell. So this can happen for a range of reasons and  maybe you didn't add enough salt, maybe your misos to wet or your coge wasn't the most hygienic or  ideal but I've also noticed that this is a particularly common problem with misos based on  very sugar rich ingredients like pumpkin or cakes since they naturally favor a more alcoholic  fermentation and if you then let them a lot of oxygen you also get a lot of acetic acid.  The extent to which people are sensitive to smell varies a lot I've noticed them like  sensory sessions or pastings as well and this is a common issue that fermenters make face and I  would love to see more academic research on the topic since to my knowledge there hasn't been any  research dedicated to understanding and tackling this issue. Having said that there is of course a  world a plethora of academic works in Japan that aren't easily available for us in the West.  So if anyone knows about any resources and this topic feel free to share it with the community.  So next we have category five which is related. So these products are defined by standard ingredients  and non-standard process and sensory profiles. Here are products that are more often materially  and or geographically close to the product in question but made by assembling the same ingredients  in different ways. We ratio processing methods etc to yield different products with their own  sensory profile and cultural significance. This field also helps link different product frameworks to each  other. As we all know fermented soybean paste has many varieties and has been used as a  condiment for millennia. It's not just in Japan as Miso but we also have other  places like Tajang in China and Dongjiang in Korea. The process of making Tajang and Dongjiang are  somewhat different from that of Miso though. Instead of Koji made with the spores of as  precious asoi's eye they both rely on spontaneous fermentation. The former with whole being  killed and the latter with major. Although Miso, Tajang and Dongjiang are used the same primary ingredients  soy, the different process and lead to distinct sensory profiles due to different treatments and microorganisms  involved. Despite the Japanese governments rather strict definition of Miso as previously mentioned,  there are still some forms of Miso that fall kind of outside of this traditional definition  of the existing as very local specialities produced in small quantities. Nesashi Miso is a beautiful  example of this. So it is made in Tokushima prefecture on Xi Koku and it's made with soy beans  that are fermented using a natural method of more formation using microorganisms in the environment  similarly to Mijo and the result is strong and unique blue cheese like flavor coincidentally again  and high acidity that is very unusual in other traditional Miso products. So another example of  like a rare type of Miso that would fall on this category is Miso Damma made in the Nagano prefecture  in the center of Japan and Miso Damma is made similarly to Nesashi Miso by crushing soy beans  rolling them into cylindrical shapes and allowing my ceiling to bloom after which they are crushed  impact in barrels with Koji and salts to ferment again. Similarly to Nesashi Miso, the sensory  profile is more akin to cheese than standard Miso's and this method was potentially born to  safe salt which was then a very precious commodity. So category six are adjacent products that are  defined by the standard ingredients and sensory profiles and non-standard processes. Here we have  products that are made often within the same culture and using the same ingredients as a product  question yielding a similar sensory experience but made in a different way. As with related products  above, this one is a linking field and with other product frameworks. Show you is a liquid  coniment that like Miso is made to a true two-step fermentation. So first a solid-side  fermentation with Koji of soybeans and toasted wheat followed by salting and a secondary  fermentation of the Koji submersion brine which is called in Moromi. And show you as a Jason to Miso  as they use similar ingredients and have similar Romami sensory profile though there are key differences  in processing such as the addition of water and filtration staff at the end of the fermentation  which gives them their distinct characteristics. So the Chinese word for soy sauce,  chamyu means the liquid pressed from cham and cham is the predecessor of Miso and similarly in  Japan, the marae translates to liquid drip and refers to the concentrated liquid that separates from Miso  during its fermentation. This was Japan's bi-product of Miso and this first bi-product was  long regarded as a high-class food. So producers found a way to produce more of the tamari  making the residual solids or tamari Miso the bright product. This tamari show you is  an early prototype of modern show you and tamari would also be considered a Jason to Miso in this  framework. So the last category is another interesting one that was born more out of like the  theoretical exercise of making this venn diagram where you have products that are made using they have  like the standard sensory profile but they don't use the standard ingredients and also not the  standard sensory profile. So we decided to call this category, Feximily, which refers to a kind of  counterfeit. Here are products that are often industrial imitations of the traditional product  using different ingredients and processing methods that allow them to achieve similar enough  sensory profiles like kind of that people would sort of accept even within the originating culture  as a version of the product in question and this category is often driven by commercial  traditional Miso fermentation is a lengthy process which has a certain price tag and there are  also many consumers with limited financial means. So I don't think that the Feximily category  is an inherently bad thing. However it is good to be aware of what are the things that we are  sacrificing in order to get a better price. In the case of Miso some producers may ferment Miso  and elevate the temperature with a high proportion of coji allowing the faster enzymatic breakdown.  These quick Miso's as they are defined in the book of Miso can be 20 to 30% cheaper but the  limited secondary metabolic processes not allowing the Miso to develop its full sensory or preservative  properties and to emulate the sensory profile of traditional Miso various chemicals such as MSG  and preservatives and colorants may be added in addition to a pasteurization step which prevents  further fermentation and CO2 production. I'm going to pop these up real quick.  So those were the examples of the seven categories of Miso according to the three F framework.  I hope that it was an insightful explanation but more importantly that I that the proposed  naming conventions sit well with the community and that we can all start integrating it into our  communications about what we are making as part of this ongoing evolution of Koji Kahn.  So as I mentioned earlier in the presentation some examples they make more sense placed in multiple fields  depending on one's perspective and analytical priorities. So yeah basically what I for example  it makes him strange to put a Miso product like Nesashimiso under related to Miso but this makes sense  considering that the process and sensory profiles are divergent and more similar to those of other  products that fall into the related category. So this is not necessarily a problem but an opportunity  for constructive discussions. We hope that this framework is more of a tool to facilitate more  new ones than thoughtful conversations and we're not trying to propose some sort of like a very  defined way that these products should be placed in certain categories. It's all quite transient  and it's more about a sort of facilitating this drug process. So yeah if you'd like to discuss any  of the examples that I bring up today if you'll feel free to drop a comment or to get back at it  later in the Koji Kahn discord and on the topic of sort of facilitating conversation there's one  extra point that I would like to add. In the paper itself we also work out the framework for  Galu and Cheese. The paper by the way it's not out yet it hasn't been officially published but  we do have it out on preprint so I will share that in the discord after presentation.  I'm not going into the examples of Galu and Cheese all too much today because it would be Russian  things and I would like to leave something new for you all to be able to read but I do want to  maybe zoom into one category of Galu to share a little hot take with you guys. Since I know  the Galu is a recurrent topic and Koji Kahn as well and that many of you have enjoyed Jose de la  Rosa's deep dive on it last week. So as Jose de la Rosa explored during his talk in recent years  Galu has experienced like a revival but not only in its traditional fish-based format searching for  new ways to create flavor and exploring the umami potential of divers ingredients. Some have been  using liquid-based proteologists to make new forms of salvage, mami-oriented sources which many  have opted to call Galu. So we are going to take this naming convention or the naming decision at  face value and accommodate them in our framework as experimental since there is a standard process  with non-standard ingredients and sensory profiles. These experimental practices are also largely  inspired by enormous inferential approach to fermentation in which Galu can be made with a range of  protein rich often but not always animal-based ingredients when combined with Koji and Brian  and aged at 60 degrees for a shortened period of time. So important to note here that this is  a relatively high temperature process which facilitates a lot of my artery action but inhibits microbes.  So the products are not technically fermented and it also has a huge impact on the type of sensory  profile that you get. There is a paper from 2017 by Olemohydsen who is also in the European  Museum of Institutes for the tripiters and this paper is called flavor of fermented fish, insect,  game and p-sources. Galu revisited. In the paper, Olem lies a range of gallumes made by the former  Nordic food lab for their chemical, physical chemical and sensory characteristics. One of the samples  was a sauce based on yellow split piece and all the noted that it made less sense to call this a  garam as in terms of ingredients process and sensory profile it was more akin to show you.  While historically many fermented sauces based on animal and plants have shared origins since  they have sort of evolved into different products with distinct traditions and sensory profiles since  that time. So now with gastronomic innovation leading to further mixing of traditional and  ingredients. Some ambiguous cases are reemerging for example, but are to call a novel,  protealized, salt-rich, mami-oriented sauce agal or a show you. Building on our tree part  description of galu which is in the paper our proposal is for differentiating galu and show you  which is a particularly salient case and experimental and analog cases would be to use the term galu  when the primary substrate is of animal origin and show you when it is a plant origin.  There are of course some ambiguous cases such as for example certain fungi based sauces.  There we can add an additional dimension of distinction which relates to the process  and resulting sensory profile. So we would define agalum as as being associated with the  predominantly mami and mami-arid driven flavor profile which may arise from an elevated incubation  temperature or a long aging with a very high salt content like 20% or above and on the other hand  show you while also salty umami and having some roasted notes. Usually it also has a more acidic  and aromatic character due to the growth of osmofilic yeast and lactic acid bacteria.  And it may also have some more sweetness due to the presence of starches that are converted into sugars.  So that was my little hot take on experimental garrom. I'm curious to know whether the  community agrees with this distinction but also importantly whether it is helpful at all.  And if not I would love to hear why in the comments or in the discord.  So to recap what we have learned during this talk fermented foods are diversifying true  innovation, globalization and research. As a whole this can be seen as a positive development  that I'm sure everyone here at KojiCon is contributing to in their own way. At the same time  we also live in a world where many traditional products are at risk of extinction and devaluation.  And during this presentation we have summarized and analyzed some of the diversity of miso.  A very clear example of a fermented product that is having its future shaped by these concurrent  and complex forces that are also shaping gastronomy as a whole. So despite having a lot to offer  analytically this framework as with any kind of course never be all encompassing and there will always  be both exceptions and disagreements around categorization depending on the users frame of reference.  However as I mentioned earlier we do not necessarily see this as limitation. Our goal is to  offer a tool that can facilitate new ones and inclusive discussions but not to offer one conclusive  way to that the tool should be used. If the framework helps advance with discussions around  conceptualization of foods even by allowing for multiple interpretations then it has succeeded.  So another risk that we have spent considerable time discussing and to keep ourselves sharp  and critical of what we were doing was the risk of essentialism and historical simplification.  So for example by relying on some sort of a historical baseline to establish the standard  by which the traditional and subsequent slabs are to be conceptualized the risk there is a  risk of simplifying and even flattening the history by which these products have developed  especially prior to these baselines. So thankfully we related and adjacent fields that link  our framework with products connected in the past and presence are actually sort of nudges us in the  directions of exploring these shared histories. So with this presentation I hope to promote the  inclusion of innovative products alongside the traditional counterparts,  valorizing each while also celebrating what makes them distinct. To producers and practitioners  the framework offers a tool to help understand the broader context by which the products are received  and interpreted within as well as some of the many ways that products can be described and framed.  In the paper we've also synthesized some of the technical and food science considerations  for how to differentiate different kinds of products in order to give for mentors a way to  anticipate some of the practical constraints and implications of innovating their products one way or another.  So another important aim of this presentation was to indicate what is at stake,  socially politically ethically and economically in the naming of noble foods one way or the  area. As we've seen all foods will inevitably take on new forms and tradition will inevitably  meet transformation. In fact we can even state that these two are mutually reliant so with that being said  let's all take a both hand approach to gastronomy, innovation and tradition. Study and practice  past and future. That is all that I have for you guys today. Thank you for joining and I hope  that you'll really enjoy it to talk and I'm very much looking forward to seeing the comments right now.  So, the meal. Thank you so much. I have like once again just like a full page of notes from  everything that you were saying today. This was really insightful presentation. I love that you shared  the framework. I think like knowledge is power and just like knowing how to label these things is not  only going to benefit like the communities who are like interacting with these foods,  but all the benefit the producers because if you have like a proper label for it's going to be easier  for like regulators to be able to approve your product. So thank you for sharing all of this.  Yeah I'm wearing a glad to. Thanks for your comments.  So so I have a one quick question first to get started. So you're looking for like community feedback  from the community on the framework. What's the best way that folks can interact with you about that?  I guess for now the easiest way would be in the comments if they're here, but if not they can  go to our website and we have a contact form there or they can contact me directly at  a meal at least with YouTube.edu. Yeah and I hope that there will also be some nice life events  throughout the year that we can meet up at as well. Gosh, perfect. All right. So one question that I had.  So throughout like all of these different frameworks. So you were mentioning like standard and non-standard.  So when I was thinking it's like all of these like traditional or standard products had to start out  like from something they evolved from like different practices to lead to something that we now  consider standard. And your opinion or like through the opinion of your framework when does  something become like a standard ingredient or a standard process? Yeah so that's a very good question.  Thank you for that. In the opinion of the framework and me as well, I think that things become  a standard. The moments that there was like a general agreement within the culture. So  you know when maybe in his historically speaking there might have been a lot of sort of compartmentalization  we didn't have. The internet and all these different ways of interconnectivity. So I feel like  back then maybe you know the way that one region might find a miso would be very different from  another region. But nowadays you know with the world being a lot more globalized it feels like there  is in most cases there's going to be like a sort of a baseline that everyone would agree with.  And then maybe some other projects products that others would say like, I don't know if that really  counts for me. And that's kind of difficult because if you create a product and someone is telling  you like, I don't know whether I would consider that a miso, but you've made it sort of through the  process of making a miso and you're very happy with it. Then that sort of devaluates it into what  like what is it then? I guess you could say a minocase, you know, there's other terms that we can use  but yeah from now on I think it would be nice if we can say hey look at this analog miso or this  experimental piece of a dynamic how well. All right so I have this question from Rob and so I'm  just going to pull this up on the screen. So I wonder how you think this framework could interface  with the protected designation of origin, system which many producers have found cycling.  So I think the system you propose here could be a better system to that.  Yeah absolutely. So the PDO system within Europe, it doesn't apply to miso actually and in  Japan they have their own system but I don't think that their system applies here within Europe.  But either way you know the fact that these systems they are these like super strict and they do  not really facilitate a lot of change you know the way that Parmesan has been made is  very, it has to be made is very strictly defined but we are dealing here with a type of  fermentation that doesn't want to be too strictly defined. It wants to be a little free  especially in order to be able to you know deal with maybe certain abundances or certain ingredients  try to experiment with certain side streams in order to reduce waste. These are the things that  that makes as per share the sorry size like a very strong powerhouse the fact that it has  diverse amounts of enzymes that can break down a lot of different products. So yeah having a sort of  system like this that accommodates that I agree Robin would fit a lot better. So thanks.  Awesome. Alright. So doing a presentation you told folks to toss some like miso that they've  been having trouble with into the chat. So I'm going to throw a couple of those up in there.  So this is from Mac Pumpkin miso's 10 to go wild. Why do you think that might be the case?  Yeah Pumpkin miso's due tend to go well. Yeah that's why with Pumpkin miso I tend to stick to  like a stronger fermentation usually. So as I mentioned during the talk in my experience it's  especially when you have a lot of sugar that is present. So in a pumpkin miso but at the  restaurant where I used to work we've also occasionally made miso's out of cake by growing  coji directly on the cake because we worked with the local bakery where yeah they make like  it's the they baked these squares and then they caught out the edges and they don't know what to do with  these edges. And those miso's also sometimes they tended to go into this like nail polish  direction. So my theory about it is that it has to do with like a lot of alcoholic fermentation  occurring along with maybe some acidic fermentation and that's where you can get these  at a till acid date and these other compounds. Another thing that could happen sometimes if you  have a miso that is very wet is that a lot of yeast will start growing and they will kind of  reach like a level where there's way too many yeast for the amount of substrate present and then  they these yeast they experience stress and when they go into like their stress metabolism they  can also start producing compounds that can be perceived as off labor as well. So those are two  mechanisms I've identified at least. Oh, okay so this is I'm going to be more like a scientific  question. So this is from Melissa, from Melissa. So it's a particularly interested in how or if Koji  makes phytonutrients more bio-available. Which would seem like a good reason for expanding like seeds,  greens, they're often used in novel news shows. Yeah so phytonutrients are not something that I specifically  specialize in a lot but I do know that besides you know we always talk about protease,  amylase and lipidase those are like the three enzymes that if you try to explain to someone what  aspirations or is I can do what we tend to refer to but yeah there's like over 40 different enzymes  I believe that can be produced by as per share this and as Eliot discussed in his talk even through  bio-engineering you can even introduce new specific enzymes and try to like change the metabolism  in the way that you're extracting the most out of your specific substrate that you are working with.  So I definitely think that there is a lot of potential there when it comes to novel missiles.  Though if the idea with the phytonutrients is also to be able to produce like a specific claim  which is something that a lot of at least big food producers are always trying to find like  oh where can we find a health claim but it's yeah very difficult actually at least in the European  regulatory environment to to stake like a super strong specific claim onto a product.  But still nevertheless we I mean we know ourselves that it is healthy for us to consume so I guess that's  what matters most. Gotcha sweet. Oh and then this is another great question that I was also thinking  of so what Europe with this framework work with things like with other products that have like  these sort of like broad categories and types like beers or coffees or even like wines for  example. Yeah thank you for that question Mac so definitely the idea of the framework we've used  these three different examples each specific reasons. Me so obviously because we are at European  me so Institute and we really believe in it and we want to sort of highlight it.  Guarroom it was an interesting case because of its like research and now but in fact this  originating culture which we refer to a lot in the framework has has disappeared the ancient  Roman Empire which is no longer in existence today and then cheese was an interesting one because  it has these like very strong strict definitions of what is it cheese and there we actually also had  some some very interesting realization that what is often referred to as analog cheese which  are these cheese based on like starches and coconut oil to us they would be a forksimile cheese  and an analog cheese would be a more artisanal may cheese with where you go through the process  of creating like a nut milk for example fermenting it, curdling it so yeah I'll also a lot of  richness there but the framework we I've already tried with some friends in the beer industry actually  wants to like sort of try to see how it applies to beer and it does work for coffee I haven't  tried it I don't know whether there is enough like for coffee like I guess there are actually also  analog coffees such as with dandelion and so on so probably there can be something there  but actually at the Carifaleb etatonomesis which is another really really cool fermentation festival  in the Netherlands with the nice community there I had a talk also relating to this framework  and there was actually a guy that does like a lot of tea research and he yeah he makes his own tea  and trades in tea and so on and he specialized in fermented teas and he also brought us some  fermented tea that could be eaten so I also started discussing with him that how well the  framework would actually apply to tea as well and that he was very excited that we were bringing this  out in the world because he does often struggle with like how to eat a position sort of the  account of the position on the eating a tea leaf that you're supposed to eat versus like a  fermented tea based on chameleasinances or tisanas or different herbs teas so yeah I'm excited to see  if there's people out there that's that like want to use a framework and apply it to their own  fields that they are specialized in. gosh I'm awesome thank you for that answer that was fantastic  no worries I lost from all right so I think we are  oh yeah I think we're looking pretty good on questions right now  a male one question that I had to sort of wrap up the afternoon today so what are  what are like where do you see the European and you so institute let's say like at the end of this year  and let's say like five years down the road what are your goals for your organization?  yeah thanks for that question Eric so right now we are at a point with the European  Misvenicitutes that we are actually trying to establish as an official organization so we are  that's so far we've operated more as like a grassroots where yeah we just have a group of people  and we all agree that we are an organization so we go based on this mutual belief but there is no  official registration anywhere yet and you know we decided to do this because yeah we didn't want to  you have to stock up on the idea funding or trying to having to create like a business model behind  it or something like that but now we are reaching a point where we realize that not having an  official registration has certain limitations when it comes to organizing events or maybe joining in  on bigger research projects that are linked to maybe European subsidies so that is something that we  hope to have done by the end of this year for sure and then within five years I'm hoping that the  European Misvenicitutes yeah would have like strong connections with different universities where we try to  link actually miso producers to universities in order to facilitate knowledge but also I hope that  at that point because now we're really focusing on the academic part that we will be focusing  more on doing things yeah for like consumers so maybe so consumer research having collaborations  where with chefs where we create like simple sort of concepts around how to cook with miso  that people can start applying and maybe even creating a cookbook or something like that this  and the idea that's been sort of bubbling in my head recently that I'd like to discuss with our group  so yeah very a lot of different things so we try to operate on these sort of different fields  of being a bit focused on academics a bit focused on the producers chefs but then also consumers  and I hope yeah that people grow on to a bigger organization as well with with many members  and where we can have maybe some more direct link with with the producers in a way that we can  really support them and to yeah grow this industry together. Awesome. I mean thank you that was a great  answer I just love like how your organization values education and the open sharing this of knowledge  like the only way that everyone benefits is if more of this information is available to everyone so  I really appreciate you sharing that and the mission of the European New Sew Institute.  Yeah for sure I mean you guys also do a really good job at that at the Yellow Farmhouse so thank  you to you as well for organizing this beautiful conference every year. Okay all righty so  I mean I want to again thank you so much and for folks in the chat you can follow a meals journeys  on his Instagram, a meals food adventures as well as the European Me Sew Institute  there Instagram right over here. I'm going to be sure to check out the Me Sew Institute database  I have that link up right here and it's also a our Discord channel and the resources channel so be  sure to check that out as well. All right. Meal once again thank you so much. Our movie  from the stream and then we'll wrap up this wrap up today's session. All right thank you very much Eric and  thanks everyone see you. All righty that wraps up once again another fantastic presentation for Koji  Conta on a 25 tradition meets transformation. A meal thank you so much for sharing all of that with us today.  Tomorrow we have a few more presentations we'll have three presentations tomorrow.  So at 9 a.m. Eastern Standard Time we're going to be joined by Daniel Wynn for presentation title  Vietnam under the Microsoft exploring Vietnam's fermentation traditions in modern innovation  at 11 a.m. Eastern Standard Time will be joined by avert Shrepen for a presentation called  Lambert Meets Koji exploring Koji and spontaneous fermentation. So be sure to tune into that and then  at 2 p.m. Eastern Standard Time will be joined by Melissa Hoffman for a presentation called Living  Tradition shaping future food ways to intimacy with the place. So be sure to tune in to all of  those tomorrow at 9 a.m. 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. And as always if you want to  learn more about what we're doing over here at the Yellow Farmhouse Education Center you can check out  our website at yellowfarmhouse.org as well as our Instagram at Yellowfarm CT. If you want to stay up to  day on all things KojiCon be sure to follow the KojiCon Instagram account at Koji.con.  And if you have any questions at all about the conference feel free to reach out to us at info  at yellowfarmhouse.org either myself or Haley will be able to get back to you and answer any questions  that you might have. So that all I will sign off for today and looking forward to seeing everyone tomorrow.  Peace.