 Hello everyone. Welcome back. Welcome back to Kojikon 2023, preserving the past  fermenting the future. My name is Eric Dawson. I'm an educator in farmer for the  Yellow Farmhouse Education Center. We are a small nonprofit located here in  Salvi-Sturm Connecticut and the mission of the Yellow Farmhouse is to connect  people with each other and to where their food comes from. So Kojikon this year  would not be possible without the support of our cultivator sponsors. This year  we have Connecticut humanities and the Hoco lab as well as some of our session  sponsors. So, the recruit setters sponsoring individual sessions. So for this  session with Jeremy Emanzke, our session sponsors are a dry agent and  larger. You can also check out our marketplace, Kojikon.org. We are  able to find some great deals. Check out some really cool products with you  fermentation. A bunch of other cool stuff like that. So today is going to be a  little bit different. I will not be hosting this presentation. I'm just more  going to be behind the scenes doing our quick little introduction. Just me talking  right now. But I would like to introduce our host for today who's Harry Rose  and Blame. So Harry is a creator thinker and founder in the Food and House  Ware's Industry. He is a co-founder of the Brooklyn Kitchen, a radical cooking  school which opened in 2006 and included retail goods and grocery before  focusing on teaching people how to cook. He founded the meat hook, a whole  animal, a whole animal, butcher shop in 2009. His long had a focus on sourcing  specialty ingredients, looking beyond the food itself for the story, people and  connections behind the products. In 2017, his first book, Vinegar Revival,  had read over here, was published all about making vinegar and delicious acidic  foods at home. Harry hosts the award-winning podcast for kids, time for lunch on  Heritage Radio Network. So that I would like to introduce Harry to the stream.  Thanks, Eric. It's great to be here. Big fan of Koji Khan and Koji and all sorts  of fermentation. As mentioned, I wrote a book about vinegar. I've been  fermenting foods of various sorts since the mid-90s when I started making  terrible beer when I was in college because I wasn't old enough to buy it. Luckily,  I kept going and started making much more delicious things after that. But that was my  gateway to this wild world of fermentation. I'm honored today to introduce my  friend and colleague Jeremy Manskey. If you're here, then you probably know about  Jeremy and a lot of the work that he does. He's one of the founders of Koji  Khan along with Rich Shee. He's also the author of my copy of Koji Alcami.  Arguably, one of the best books out there for folks getting started with our  favorite versatile mold. Jeremy's also an added pharager. He's a dad. He's one of the  founders of the award-winning Larder Delicatessen in Bakery and Cleveland, which I  am remiss to say I had not yet personally visited, but it is on my list in the  near term. At Larder, they employ fermentation in what I would describe as a  dizzying array of forms and practices. But today, Jeremy is going to focus on  speaking with us about Koji and fish and how we can use Koji to prepare and  preserve preserved fish. It's a subject that's close to my heart and my recent work  I'm a board member of a nonprofit called Eating with the ecosystem. We're based  here in Rhode Island and we promote a place-based approach to seafood. Our belief is  that there is a way forward where we can be responsible consumers of local seafood.  Sometimes that might mean managing the fishery, might mean pausing, catching that fish,  to let that population recover. Sometimes that means seeking out under utilized  fish. Sometimes that means eating and being subspecies. I believe in Jeremy I'm  sure is going to share some ideas with us. Koji has the power to help us in  all of those and to help transform our food and fish is no different than that.  It has keeping, please feel free to post questions in the chat that you see in  comments and we'll try to get to those. Jeremy might answer them in line or we might  use them in a Q&A following Jeremy's talk. Jeremy, thank you so much for being here.  Oh, Jeremy, I think you got to unmute yourself for a second.  Sorry, I was muted. There we go. This is never smooth for me.  This is not a thing. I'm so stoked to be here. This is fantastic. And Harry, we've  known he we've been talking Koji for how long now. We're probably pushing the better part  of the decade. I would say that that sounds about right. Sounds about right.  2014. Yeah, yeah. So this is great to be here with you, Tene. Oh man. So yeah,  and Koji, who would have thought you could do something with the two of them, huh?  You know, I think one of the first things to discuss is when you are going to use seafood and  Koji, there's a couple things you need to look at. There's various metrics for how we should  source our seafood. If you happen to live in a coal store area, you happen to have direct fresh  access to hopefully lots of different seafood. If you do not live in a coal store area,  you do have access to many different types of seafood. But a lot of times,  it has to be flown in. So this brings about a discussion should someone like me,  I live on the shores of Lake Erie, should I be flying salmon and cod and that sort of thing  into my ecosystem? And at larger, we kind of take a very hard stance of no, we're only going to  serve fish out of the Great Lakes and fresh water rivers in this area. So that I guess limited  softs, even though there's a huge and dizzying array of fresh water seafood we can work with,  from snails and frogs to smell it and all sorts of fish and there's even fresh water clams  and mollusks and that sort of thing. So I think you need to identify what seafood is best for you.  After that, we do have to take into consideration is we all love to eat delicious things like  shrimp and I cannot get shrimp that is produced anywhere in Ohio and the Great Lakes are anything.  So when I do source this sort of thing, I follow things like the Monterey Bay Aquarium's guidelines for  seafood and I have direct talks with my fish mongers who are on sourcing the fish from. If they can't  answer the questions I have about where this came from, how it was caught, how fresh it is and how  it's been handled since it's been received by that fish monger, I'm not even interested in buying  that fish. And you have to understand seafood is expensive because it has to be  so much, so much fresher than anything else. Now looking behind me, I have this awesome dry  agent and you can kind of see in here I'll move this a little bit. Like that, that's some beautiful  Arctic char in there. We're making some locks. There's also some some brisket and some gwangchalli,  some pork jowl, we had some pig heads in there last week. And you can dry each fish, but you've got  to make sure all this stuff is as fresh as possible. My one of my guidelines I'd like to stick to  when I am sourcing seafood and I've done this is very helpful for people who are first starting out  is to buy whole animals. Don't get anything that really has been processed and if you're sourcing  from a really good fish monger, you can have them clean and fill a scale and do all those things  for you that you may be intimidated of or not have the skill set to do at the level you want to do yet.  They can handle all that for you. So buy whole animals, buy whole shrimp, buy whole fish,  buy whole lobsters, whatever you can and when it comes to seafood if something is living,  that's the best option. If you can get a live eel, a live frog, a live fish, anything like that  and process it yourself, that is something that you should definitely go for. I see Taylor here  has a question. I'm sorry I'm on the wrong comment screen. I was in the private chat.  So dealing with PFAs in freshwater seafood, like I'll be black and white with you guys. We're  fucked. All right. There's no how do we deal with this? Either eat it or we don't. Like it's kind of  black and white. So each person is going to have to make a determination now. And these are all  recent reports that started coming out the past month and a half, 45 days roughly, about these  forever chemicals that we're finding in abundance in the Great Lakes and by you accumulated in the  flat flesh of freshwater fish. So to think ocean fish is any safer with things like heavy metal  contamination of the seafood chain and whole sorts of wild toxins and everything that can accumulate.  We're fucked. I mean that's part of my French in saying that. But if you're really concerned,  then you are solely limited to aquaculture that is done in closed systems and they can  give you printouts and readouts of the water and the concentration of various chemicals in there.  So you can see what's in the fish. So kind of addressing that sort of thing and that's a whole  can of worms that we're still trying to unpack here in Cleveland and sourcing from the Great Lakes.  And what do we do? We don't know yet. We're still thinking about this and making decisions.  So kind of get on to COG. There's various things that you can do with COG in seafood.  And really the potential is unlimited. So for example, this Arctic char and this is farm  raised from a really, really good farm. We do source wild as often as we can but this product is just  stunning. So this Arctic char is absolutely beautiful and we're using it to make locks here.  So using COG within traditional applications for all sorts of manners of cured fish is really  really simple and straightforward. And I think a lot of you kind of realize at this point  that it can be as simple as just sprinkling some COG on some stuff. And whether your COG is  you know fresh rice or it's a big thing Amazaki or it's various amino paste or sauces, that sort of thing.  You know, you can really plug in at so many so many levels. And anytime a COG with  that's whether it's living, it has live active enzymes or a COG made product that's just umami-loaded.  You're going to be able to work with seafood in ways that are really really going to develop  flavors that you almost don't traditionally find in seafood with almost any standard method of cooking  where you're not using enzymes or using COG or that sort of thing. So I think probably,  you know, let me show you an example of various foods made from COG and then we'll kind of get into  I have some really specific examples of some beautiful fresh seafood here. And we can talk about all the  different ways that we can use COG-3rd products in this. So I think one of the first things here  and I do have cordied headphones so cutting is going to be a little awkward for me so bear with me.  So right here we've got some gefilte fish. This is a 100% buffalo fish which is a relative  relative of a species similar to carp. It's vegetarian. They get fat on on aquatic grasses. And when I say  they get fat. They have a fat in the buffalo fish. As yellow as this white fish can be out. It's just  absolutely insane. So you want to talk like the beef of the water. Like this is it. It's out there  it's grazing aquatic grasses and other other algae and that sort of thing getting fat. I love  buffalo carp. They're absolutely excellent. And you know it's really crazy too because  Jewish cooks in America up until the 1957s even once a week they would go to the fishmonger and be  able to buy a fresh carp living. And then they would put in their bathtub for a few days to like  purge out the muddy silty flavor the flesh and everything. But if you can source a large carp you can  keep it alive in your bathtub until you're ready to eat it. It's nice. So kind of going back to  some of these foods. We have gefilter fish. This is traditional eastern European food. It's actually  almost exactly my grandma those recipe. Except we add Amazaki to this and I'll get into what we do  with this in a second. We've got some smoked white fish right here. Look at this beautiful head.  Whenever we go and we smoke a fish we've found out those of you that do smoke one of the things  that's really important is the development of this thing called a pelico. And a pelico is the  surface of something. Okay just like a cuticle is another at applications. So we have this  pelico. It's the surface of this before it gets smoked. And a pelico should be like kind of dry  sticky tacky. You guys know those you put the quarter in the 25 cent machine and you got those  little sticky hands. You could throw it stuff. A pelico should feel like those sticky tacky but not wet.  And this is really important for getting smoke flavor to adhere to foods when we smoke them.  So one thing we found out too if you don't develop a proper pelico formation when you smoke,  you won't get the beautiful smokey color. And that can be really offsetting. You have some smoke  fish and it doesn't have the golden glow. Look at this. Look at that golden glow on that.  It doesn't have the golden glow and then it's like not a really a smoke fish. It kind of looks like  I don't know. I've been steamed fish or that sort of thing. But we found out that pelico formation  isn't as important when you have some cogey in your brine for your fish. So when we make our smoked  white fish here at Larger, we take the whole fish, we scale them, we leave the skin, the fins,  everything else intact. We gut them. We make caviar and you know sometimes we use shield cogey or  you know different things for that. But when we brine this fish, depending on how long the fish  is going to be in the brine, we do either 5% brine for kind of longer-term stuff if we're going to  be closed over a weekend. The fish is going to sit for a few days. And then we can do up to a 10% brine.  It's only been around 7% for stuff that's just going to be a quick overnight or 24 hours in this  Amazaki solution. So typically what we do is we take one part of Amazaki, one part water. We salt  the weight of that to the 5% to 10% range, you know, whatever you're going for in the saltiness of your  fish. And then after that we don't have to then take the fish out of the brine and let it rest in  air, dry for another day in the cooler, you know, however you do your pelico formation.  Because of all these wonderful sugars and micro, these amino acids and everything that the cogey's  bringing to the party and all the ins and mad get TV on the surface, what we don't get in  traditional pelico development, we still get from the mayor of reaction happening on the surface of  this fish because of the cogey. So actually with these cogey marinades we found we can go right  from a brine into a smoking situation and still develop great color and have great smoke flavor  that sticks to the surface because a lot of these old wheel sugars are just so sticky and tacky.  They catch on even when they're wet. So that's a really really fun thing that we've discovered  over time with cogey. When you do decide to make caviar and those of you that haven't made caviar  maybe have made other styles of cured fish eggs, things like buparka, the taram which is the dry  cured fish eggs that they used to make taram a salata and these are traditionally carp eggs that  are dried and salted over long period of time we make a ton of them here. Those applications for the  dried and preserved fish eggs cogey is very good for. So if you're making botarg if you're making  Russian Ukrainian style like smash caviar that are then pressed into fudgy bricks you can use cogey  to your heart's content where you run into problems with fresh eggs that you want to be in  like caviar. The enzymatic activity from cogey can be too heavy but it can add a great flavor boost.  So after you make your caviar before you serve it if you want to spoon just a little bit of  chio cogey you can cure your fish to a lesser percentage of salt so it isn't so salty and then  dress your caviar. There's nothing wrong with dressing caviar people done this for centuries.  So jazz it up put some cogey on there. Dyson Misesookey pickles in there for something interesting.  You can have lots of fun that way. So you know so far too and we've talked about applications for  polfish for ground fish which I'm going to loop back in this gefilte in a second for caviar.  So we're looking at ways like in the gefilte fish we don't pull out the pin bones. The scales  get in the grind like that's okay. This is getting ground up. We have enzymatic activity from  the cogey softening things, creating flavor. It works out wonderfully. So when we make something  like this gefilte fish this is essentially very similar to a paté in a lot of respects but instead  of using a terrestrial protein we're using an aquatic one. So in our gefilte fish recipe we use a  panod to bind this and a panod is a French word for a mixture of eggs and fat and starch and  it's kind of like a yabitamol together and when you make a paté this is what allows for the smooth  silk and texture of a paté of a daily meat that sort of thing. Otherwise you end up with a  texture like meat, meatloaf. If you don't add these fats and these binders and these starches in there.  So our standard paté panod here at Larger, traditionally it is a tablespoon of starch per  one egg and a tablespoon of cream and that's kind of classical French. So what we do is we substitute  Amazaki for the heavy cream and we cut back on the starch by 50% because the Amazaki is just  got a lot of starch in it too. So this allows us to make this gefilte fish. We grind the fish,  we boy there's garnish in there like onions and herbs ground into it and everything. We take  this mixture of Amazaki of egg and the starch we blend it up. We work it into into the meat and  then we end up with something that's just absolutely incredible. One of the things you want to do  those when you are using co-g in this way and you have active enzymes, you do need a little bit of time  for flavor development. So anytime you're doing a ground fish application, whether you're doing  you know an Asian style fish ball or you're making a filth of fish, it doesn't matter.  You do want to let this once you grind and mixing your co-g and your panodinal, that sort of  stuff. You do want to make sure this rest overnight in the fridge before you then cook it.  I feel that's really important. You just get a better degree of flavor development and we haven't  noticed anything negative in terms of how the enzymatic acid impacts the texture of these foods.  So you don't have this worry that oh I'm leaving the fish sit on co-g for too long in the fridge  and it's going to liquefy and break apart all this. You're you're you're good and then by the time  this ground application cooks whether you're searing it on a griddle or you're baking it in a  low for making a ball whatever it is you've got great enzymatic acid and just really really intense  flavor. I really pride myself on having good gefilte fish because it has this  off-reputation of being this mystery scary weird food that people don't know how it's made and they  don't necessarily know if they like or not. So you know that's that's one thing we'll get.  I'm trying to keep up with some of these questions. I see a really good question here from Cory  from 4-11. It says is there a particular reason why fish doesn't last the same as landmeats?  So yes there's several reasons. So the biggest reason is once we take them out of their natural  environments where they're optimized to live and how their muscle structures optimized to move  and we put them in another environment we change the the air pressure on them and all these various  things like they just don't survive right they can't breathe. So right away taking you know a fish out of  his in sorry out of its environment we have to work with it a lot quicker than we do to rest  or on me it's resting on me it's we can throw in this cooler for a year if we wanted to before  even trimmed it and did anything to it. They're just much hard year and if we look at actually  look at the flesh of a fish and how it's structured let me see what I can wiggle around here.  I know it's hard with the reflection but you see the striations of tissue on here so you have  muscle and then you have a layer of the connective tissue okay there's sometimes scenes of  bat and they're also they have very short muscle fibers the muscle fibers run sorry if you guys can't  see this the muscle fibers run opposite the lines of grain in this flesh so they're very short  and these very short muscle fibers end up being very weak once we take them out of water and  and they can to grade and break down really quickly so that's one of the big reasons the other  big reason is because of how fish are handled when we catch them whether they're in big nuts or  on a line you're yanking you're pulling your dragging you get a little bruising in that belly  oftentimes there's something that that's called belly burn that happens to a lot of fish and  what this is is the internal organs have been bruised that just if juices have leaked out and it  starts liquidifying the fish from the inside and that can happen at the first haul a lot of the water  so we the way we process animals as much differently you know we if we are killing a cow  a pig whatever it is those guts that blood everything's out of there right away we don't do that with  fish so this is this is why fish is much much more highly perishable especially for buying  you know live hole animals you know these internal organs in here they're breaking down before  any of the other harder more harder your tissues and they start to liquify from the inside out so  working with seafood always make sure it's like super super fresh so you don't have these issues so  thank you for asking an act according that was a really really good one um um uh so and Sean  looping back here to uh drying or rinsing off the fish in terms of pellicle formation before we go into smoke  when we use um azaki like these these uh uh wet brines or whatever hell you want people are calling  them these days dry brines dry brines i can't keep up with this crap um uh when you do that  literally we go straight out of the brine right into the smoker so uh no no blotting nothing nothing like that  so um as far as like i see Ken's asking you know looking at pH and looking at salt percentages for  these things you know when we and when i smoke fish here we're doing everything as hot smoke this isn't  cold smoke so we don't have any of the food safety issues that we would have in a lower temperature  zone with no oxygen and that sort of thing so uh we pretty much go when we go with these salt  percentages for like the hot smoked food and that sort of thing we're making sure that we're using  safe cooking temperatures um and then also the salt is from taste so and this is why we do have  this swing of like this five to kind of 10% range because the fish like lake white fish here which is  super, super fatty it can handle way more salt than something that's really really lean like a wall  higher or a smelt um so you can vary your salt percentage and of course keep in mind uh see  through that comes from the ocean can handle a lot more salt than freshwater can because  their bodies are used to living in salt they can hide hold more and various things so uh you can kind  of adjust those things to taste um so and i do see Adam asking right after that do you get more  uh timely way with fish in an amazaki compared to shio kaji um so uh i feel yes and amazaki is  our go to uh here at larger um i like to control the salt to kind of exact percentages when we're cooking  various things for various purposes so using amazaki and adding salt to it is a lot more efficient  for us for that type of control all that being said i love shio kaji it's an incredible flavor and  answer and like it's one of my go-to condiments that i keep next to my stove at home we don't necessarily  use it in the restaurant because we actually need just a little bit more precision than shio  kaji can give us that being said we do various back to shio kaji to use it's like a fresh thing so um  okay so we're good on question so we're moving on um i want to touch on some kaji's that i really  like to use with seafood and we discussed amazaki and that's your great port like amazaki  whether you just want to use it straight up or dilute it a little bit salt it don't salt it anything  you do um uh years ago there's this brilliant brilliant chef his name's Martin Seaver he had this  great restaurant in DC called kukuh uh he was one of the first chefs in the world to get a fellowship  um from the National Geographic Foundation for how he was working seafood and cuisine and culture  and everything and i remember i was still in culinary school and i got to do an event with Barton  and he showed me his grinding technique and for fish i believe per quart of water and part  in my my imperial measurements for for most of you here per quart of water he used a tablespoon of salt  and a teaspoon of sugar and then if he would only brine the fish for 15 minutes and then it was ready  so fish actually holds on and takes in salt and sugar um uh uh really really well so you can season  these foods to your optimal preference uh when we uh use the amazaki like i said add salt do not add  salt dilute it down not dilute it down you don't need much time literally if you took some  squid and tossed it in amazaki just as you would need so a soy sauce you're going to get really  good flavor to them and it happens really quickly so in the time you toss that squid up and get ready to  saute it or long cookie whatever you're going to do and do all your other meason plas uh that's  enough time to have a noticeable difference uh in flavor brought by the coju so these things happen  very quickly one thing i really love and and that we've been working on really intently because  share a little secret with all of you were working on on a possible seafood concept here in  Cleveland anyway this on the next black coju and seafood is incredible and you know when i say  black coju you can use any of the Luciances varieties whether they're black or brown sport whatever  grab a citric acid producer um hello citric acid you make amazaki out of this with a little bit of sweet  miss it's got the sourness the flavor of the coju and this amazaki or we had a little salt and  turning into a shield this simply dripped onto a shoved oyster um dressed uh any type of raw fish  preparation or marinated fish preparation from saviche to sushi to crudos you name it whatever you  want to call it whatever you're emulating um these cojis work incredible and i gotta tell you what to  if you make an amazaki that's a black and you marinate a white fleshed fish in there you get this  really stunning marination color that impregnates the fish on the outer edge and it's this black  color that's just sexy and the white flesh inside just really really cool things that you can do  so i really love using black coju for seafood applications because so much seafood is paired with  citrus in various ways why don't we actually just use a mold that grows the citric acid then we don't  even have to worry with vinegar so uh the black coju i feel is really really awesome okay look at my fingers  can you guys see that oh yeah look at all those spores such a beautiful coju the flavors great  sweet uh this spore is the black coju from kouichi higuchi at higuchi that's going to show it in  oh sake so really good stuff absolutely love it um for many many years now that's been my  private primary driver for working with dairy because of the acidification and cheese making  curdling and everything but i'm fully so to um black and brown cojis being the real house for  powering seafood dishes just the flavor development and the broad application you can get just from  foundation having sugars amino acids actual acids all as a foundational flavor that you're then building  up from it's just really incredible it just starts your painting off um kind of already painted for you right  so before i get into some more direct examples of seafood applications and how we  doing on questions sorry haven't always been been keeping up i july has a great question does the  amazaki not make things turn out sweet or do you use a sour version so what we find out is and our  amazaki is very very sweet um it is a very high sugar amazaki uh we we hold it for about 12 hours  at 140 degrees when we make it um and it really optimizes it and and this stuff's like sugar that  being said um but there isn't going to be a high enough concentration of amazaki left on the food  and residual sugars to really give it a sweetness versus help out with caramelization and the  may are reaction so um and a lot of cojis sugars you know there's some of these old blue sugars  and the various ones that it produces are very very simple sugars so it actually leads more to  great browning and appearance and may are reaction on steroids as opposed to making these foods  sweet if you were a eater to fill the fish which has like amazaki worked into it and everything  you're not going to pick up any sweetness on that you eat our smoked fish that's bathed in it  you you could eat all the skin you're not going to pick up on any any registrable sweet so uh that  being said when you do work with very sweet seafood things like crab and scallops you know abductor  muscles very shellfish you can beautifully play off their inherent sweetness with the amazaki  it takes it to another level and anytime you're doing a raw application of any type of shellfish  scallops anything like this whether it's anything from clams on the half shell to oysters  dress them in just a little bit on amazaki just use that as you would salt their acid when you're  working with fresh seafood so I kind of want to like I said looping some of these products that are  derivative of cojis um of things made from seafood using coji and I just have a few examples with  me today and then we're going to kind of jump in and look at some of this beautiful seafood and see  some of the various things and I'll tell you how I cook these things what I do whether it's at a  restaurant application or at home because all the time we're using coji with seafood and it's just  absolutely incredible we're actually finally fine tuning some dishes where we can hopefully collect  conduct an electric current on your tongue using uh some of the black cojis and some copper and  zinc some food tie in those so it's almost seven we're going to this for like three years it's not  okay anyways um one of my favorites this is an ex-osos if you're in the seafood and you're in a  preserving an amino pace make a bad ass ex-osos are arguably one of the most complex and intensive  sauces in the world right up there with mole just fantastic and this uh sauce has its origin in  southeast Asia Hong Kong area singapore I'm not exactly sure where but in that part of the world  and this is an opulent sauce traditionally it contains the most exquisite of smoked and dried seafoods  they can have wild mushrooms in them from uh Matsu Takita truffles I've seen versions all sorts of stuff  but it's not to what you do you take all this dried seafood um and you kind of mix it all together  and you're cooking all down and there's uh smoke dried meat there and stuff and yeah cooking all  down you're matching in a pace you salt it and you cook it and you cook it till it's really  dry and you have this pace so we make ex-osos a little differently we make it in you know an amino  pace style you know we typically follow somewhat of a me so method for these sorts of things  this has smoked smoked dried fish bones there's a field deficient here  also we have silkworms and cicadas in here the silkworms we did get from the local Korean market  but the cicadas were were wild harvest a lot of all the seafood was out of Lake Eury and we kind of cook  this down and then after we grind and cook everything that's when we go through like kind of our  me so making process so we take that paste we mix it with coge and salt and we let it sit so  this is like amazing concentrated seafood just exquisiteness right um this smallest little bit of  this can go to the longest way but you could also like use this just as you would a me so so like  I love exosos a tablespoon it is a tablespoon or so a butter a multiply in a pan tossing it's  some pasta and you're done forget about it um so exosososos is really something that's great  and the great thing about exosos let's say you cut the feles off your fish and you know you  dress those with some mamasake and some musico shoe and some nice stuff and you're slurping it  with a bowl of rice and it's just absolutely delicious well you got the head you got the bones and  everything and oftentimes you know we're just like well let's let's make fish sauce and this was made  from salmon eggs this one's kind of old um this is from August of 19 I haven't tasted it but we did  smell it earlier and it I used this as a teaching aid so it's often the second to start it a little  bit of acetone on the head just because this was never pasturized and then held in a low oxygen  environment there was a little alcohol in here but it smells really good it smells like really good  salmon caviar is what it smells like after they acetone dissipate so you know you can make  this sauces but keep in mind if you make a gallon of fish sauce if I make a gallon of fish sauce  on my restaurant I know it takes me several months to get through I can only imagine how long it's  taking you to get through a gallon of fish sauce at your house that being so we can only make so much  so exosauce is a great example smoke those fish bones fry them up the heads grind them up  in turn into this awesome flavorful paste and coge is going to help you help you do that it's really  really a great way to go you know there's other things that you can do too a lot of people get a great  laugh at this one here's an amino paste I'm sure you can read what it says but yes this is the soft  grow from walleye so this is the sperm sacs from walleye when we get a lot of walleye run in we  have a ton of sperm sacs their eggs make good botarga but not necessarily caviar so we take the  sperm sacs we take the soft egg sacs and mix them with coge we mix them with salt typically 10  percent for this to kind of help it's fish you know it's specifically for sperm and eggs and  then we ferment it into an amino paste that's just like absolutely awesome too most of my amino  paces just kind of generally out there for people I always and pretty much around 10 percent I used to  go low concentration with some styles and you know on the restaurant we have stuff sitting all over  the the shells and crops and muros and kielkeys everywhere and we also have a garage or front  or space so I found out if I go less than 10 percent salt I have a lot of problems with fruit flies  seasonally and everything so 10 percent or more I don't have any of those issues year round even when  I have the whole storefront of my my restaurant open and there's mages and flies and yeah so  anybody that does I have lots of fish comes so anybody that's coming in is like I want to  I want some of that my mouth but I can help you out so we've got that covered but this allows you to  use every little part of the fish you know and we can get infinitely complex like we can take each  organism and kind of talk about them individually so you know we have head on shrimp there's a  million ways to cook this simply with shrimp I really love to do like high temperature yacaturace  I'll grilling with them get the skin and the head crispy and just eat everything all at once  skewer them what I really love to do with these guys when they're whole like this and I like to kind of  poke a little hole right about here on the underside right we see the legs just so we can get into the  body cavity and I like to typically do equal parts murin equal parts amazaki and a little dash  and me sort dashed a soy sauce and just and and if you don't have murin like straight soki is  really good too I tend not to keep alcohol in my house because I'm I'm in a recovery so I don't  really have just soki laying around so I tend to go in the mirror and it's it's a lot harder to get a  craving to chug murin than it is soki anyways I like to get a little hole in here so I can get into  the head cavity get a little bit in there honestly 15 minutes an hour that's really all you need  for some of these more delicate whole seafood and then jam a skewer right through its anal hole  and come on up and then put these on a high heat yacitori grill you're gonna have like some of the  best stuff you've ever eaten and literally you're just gonna be using you know some coji based products  and some shrimp the the thing that I I feel comes across most clearly when using coji and seafood  is coji is such this wonderful ephemeral sweet pleasant aroma flavor and most seafood has those  same qualities like that oceanic sweetness they're really really a wonderful kind of almost floral  notes that you can pick up on really fresh seafood so coji pairs with it simply you just don't  have to do much from there you want to do shrimp cocktails and you want to literally like simmer these  and some aromas aki that's absolutely incredible you have a a lot of things to do there so  some things that are really fun to do you know there's shrimp chips and fried scales and heads and all  this stuff so these heads are really cool if you take a little bit make a lot of meat based  amino paste and some of those I do very low salt so I can kind of use them as a pasta filling or  that sort of thing so or something like this exos salt which is sauce which is a little bit  lower and salt this back some of our traditional miso's you know fill this head with some  miso paste and then fry that up you know if you're doing a various meat me so that can act like a  filling stuff that in this head fry those up and you're gonna just be absolutely blown away every  time you need it you're gonna be like I really didn't do anything but put me so on a shrimp head and  then fry it up and I'm blown away it's that simple it's that enjoyable so some species of shrimp  a couple times a year I do get some like a lasking spot prawns from friends of mine in Alaska  and they have tons of eggs on the underside you can easily clip off these little legs all right and  you can make a really really nice caviar out of the shrimp row you don't get a lot and you're not  going to have enough that's going to be sitting around for a long period of time so that caviar  it's totally okay to use shio kujirama's okey for because you get a small amount you're going to  eat it like right away so what are some other things that we can do with with kuji um this one  I've got this really cool I don't know if you can read this so yeah this is a recent date on here  just because we put in different container but this cacao nib miso it's got to be like four years old now  we got a nice nice amount of it and it straight up tastes like dried oil cured black olives  so we're using in a lot of applications we actually had some in the deli case right now we had some  three year old preserved citrus that we had done in shio kujir those in these it's some wild ramps  we have this like chocolate and orange pickle in the deli case right now that's really really good  but something like this anything with black olive flavor profiles and and you i often find this in  a mean of taste substrates that have a lot of bitterness and then tend to go like this black  olive arrangement it's really good and this smells like moly and chocolate but it tastes like black  olives it's insane anyways stuffing squid heads with this doing a little tie you can do really  really nice things too because some of these paste that you can eat larger amounts of so you take  some of that paste right and you take a little piece of fish and you roll the miso around it and  then you stuff it into the squid heads and then you cook these you know suvi at like 145 for a  little bit really activate the enzymes in your preparations and you have a stuff squid that's  braised that's ready to go that's just incredible and all you've done is like literally rub the  little miso put a little hunk in there sealed it up and slow cook it so um i just saw a great  question here about soft shell crab sorry i got got distracted let me read these here  okay so it's kind of two part question so does Amazaki or Kogit self work for softening the  carcass is a shrimp and crab yes and no there's a lot's in their exoskeleton that  especially shellfish you know there's kaitan in there and Kogit does produce kaitanase  very very low level so over time you could yes liquefized shells a lot of times what i do though  is i use a lot of the shells so let's say do a crawfish boil or you know we had that shrimp here  look at this guy i didn't rip his claw if he was like that at at at the fish monitor  i knew nobody else was gonna buy him and i was like give me the one without the claw i can handle them  um you know these shells from from your lobster these days you can mash up you can kind of  puree you can mechanically break them apart and then use your Kogit to make an amino sauce um we  have one that we're gonna actually harvest relatively soon here made from crawfish parts and that's been  going for about 18 months right now and i gave it a stir the other week and finally around the 18  month mark i'm actually noticing a lot of pitying in the shells and they're looking like they're starting  to break down so uh kind of this second part of this question uh is Kogit gets a saucehell crab out of a  Kogit marinated crab i i don't think but i'm not gonna say no uh here's the thing i think if you  were going to you know instead of letting this guy go through or woman that's a girl uh instead of  this beautiful lady going through her natural molting process and releasing her shell and everything  you know Kogit's often this i don't think you could without just destroying the meat so um i  don't think we're necessarily going to be able to turn the hard shells into soft shells but if you  were just taking the shell i bet you could with enough time and enough enzymatic concentrate you  might have to source pure enzymes and you can do that from sports some sport producers like Kouichi  and that could definitely help out with that so uh Kogit's a Kogit crab shells yes but you  do need some starch so um you know just like when we make the shark food ring that sort of thing  we use powdered starches or medium to help get the mold growing because the well grown  pure proteins are really you know dense sources and protein that's sort of stuff by itself it needs  starch so yes you can get it to grow on anything you may need a starch layer to help you with that  when we do inoculate and culture pieces of seafood this is a very intensive process if you are  not confident that you can do this without killing yourself don't grow Kogit directly on seafood  but when we do that we still dust the pieces seafood in a little bit of starch very starches to  to get it to grow it so um you can but not naturally you've just got to add something so uh  let's see okay Kori you're bringing me back to what I really wanted to focus on and that is  applications with Rossy. various cruders, sushi, cevichees whatever you want to call them so  let's say you do have a sour amazaki or one that you've made from a luchy-ensis variety of  citric acid producer those in themselves can like you could use that amazaki to make a ceviche  you don't need any citrus um so you can use these very simply you know you can just rest  stuff in it you can also take fresh Kogit and sandwich it on some pieces of you know filet and just let  that sit there and it'll cure through beautiful using Kogit to make things like the locks I have  in the dry edge or behind me it's really really easy to do this so these kind of and I refer to like  light cured seafood also in that raw realm right like I consider uh both Nova and locks in the  same wheelhouses sushi in ceviche and crudo just me mentally um so you can pretty much plug it in  anywhere and it I honestly don't know why more sushi chefs when they're plating fish and  various things like they don't either have like a little bit of shio or amazaki that they're brushing  with and and I say that as someone who does not live in Japan and have extensive experience with daily  sushi culture and what what a lot of progressive chefs are doing um I just noticed around my area  it's one thing I don't see I see a lot of brushing with soy sauce and that sort of thing but  like shio Kogit I'm a zaki do you want pure crisp intense kogit flavor in a realm of  think of all those great things that you smell uh when you smell freshly going kogit all that  parlay is to almost any fresh seafood for a raw application in the most exquisite way uh some  the only things that I found personally I don't necessarily like for it in raw applications is  some of the really oily high fat fish and I don't mean things like farmer's salmon which is like  exquisitely fatty or the artichart behind me exquisitely fatty I mean things like blue fish like  macarole like herring well I do add amazaki when I make pickled herring and then our pickled fish  recipe we do this like line style of pickled fish um some of the other fish I find that the heavier  the fats are in it like blue fish that kogit can actually make them taste stronger fish your  oilier kind of like fish oil so do we care for some of those fish the macarole the the herring  blue fish those sorts of things because kogit can bring out like the fishy oily flavor and  for a lot of people that can be really optoating a lot of people that's why they don't fish is  because of those flavors so just be mindful of that um you know when it comes to raw seafood too like  whether you're eating shrimp raw whether you're eating uh you know lobster raw which I will be  tonight eating some of this raw um just very simple light dressing so just a little bit of  kogit on the zaki that's where it's at let's say you want to do some clams on the half shell some  oysters on the half shell you know if you can make a sour amazaki or an amazaki from alutia  citric acid producer um and clarify it whether you know pork through filters you got their  methods for for separating clarifying and you're just dripping this like clear black liquid on  some oysters instead of lemon juice that's sexy as all hell and the aroma from kogit the flavor  kogit just pairs with almost any flesh of any aquatic animals so deliciously and brings out  really the strong and herit nature of them that it just has to be simple you know a couple drops here  a couple drops there let's see what else do I have here you know things like crab right uh let's say  you're gonna be serving uh butter to dip this in break out the mezzo butter you know you know  have some fun with that if you're gonna be cooking seafood in a classic American friends  European style or you just you know seafood you're dipping in these different sauces and butter  is the sort of thing add the flavor in there somehow whether you marinate and listen you know  this is cooked this is snow crab obviously it's red it's been cooked uh you're not buying raw  crab most of the time when you buy crab if it's this color that's something to keep in mind so  even this can benefit from a little bath in some shio kogit or samamazaki or the butter you're  gonna dip this in make it be a nice mezzo butter or an amino sauce butter that sort of thing  and get the flavor and then save all these shells so that you can turn them into an amino sauce  using kogit after you eat it's okay to do that and if you're like oh you know if you're doing this  at home now now one thing we don't do that sort of thing in the restaurant right I'm not like hey you  just say can I have your shells back no no we don't do that but at at home we can definitely do that  and we can kind of control we can talk to our kids and our wife and say listen don't chew on the  shell like just let's break them off with scissors because I'm gonna turn them into something else you know  take those things into consideration but if you do have a bunch of stuff that your kids  sucked all over and everything you want to turn your new amino sauce a dip in some boiling water for a  little bit you're gonna be fine you're gonna be able to still you know extract flavor out of this and  fermented down and otherwise all this delicious stuff that you can use in kogit out of here so  kogit is great for whole fish look at these these are  those little buffalo fish this little carp I'm like they were as part of a buffalo haul and these  were in there as buy catch and you know listen if it's coming out like buy catch they just throw  back these dead fish I'm like I'll give you money for it it's cool I can we can eat this you know  so get these little cute ones so I'm actually gonna bathe these in this Amazaki marinade later and  then Tuesday morning we'll smoke these whole these will look great just beautiful golden little fish  smoke fish on a plate they will stuff the insides with some pea shoes they're something put a little  salad and there who knows you know pretty much you have so many options for using kogit with seafood  and kind of what I employ you to do and you can do really cool like um inception style stuff right  like you want to make seven can't salmon caviar and dress them with an amino sauce made from salmon eggs  and then like put that on top of some cured salmon belly that you use on the socket and make like  you can layer this in however you want and create you know you could solely create a whole dish  you know for white fish of serving nothing but this animal and extracts and parts and you know  preserved parts made from its body like there's a lot that you can do it it's it's really really  limitedness you know every time I'm this is our third kogit on and I'm still like yeah you can do  all this crazy stuff like let's do it there's so much to do it it's really the possibilities are  but when it comes to kogit seafood really focus on bringing out the inherent  nice cities of the ingredient itself and I feel that's more important in seafood than working  with other types of things like a steak, a terrestrial protein or even a vegetable for that matter  um you know seafood nuance can be so delicate and so extreme for some people that's a really  highlight that I think that is where kogit and seafood shine just the simplicity of the combination  and as intricate and complex we want to get you can do that but you don't have to literally  later tonight so this lobster right I'm gonna break it apart later it's our mission the call  I will be taking this tail out I'll make sure it's dead first it won't suffer anymore  and I'll take the tail out and I'll pull the carapise off and in here on the top of each one of  these legs these really beautiful strands of meat um and each this is a chicken so like a one  and a quarter one and a half pound lobster roughly uh lobster decides you're gonna get a tablespoon  of these strands in here it's the best meat on the lobster there's not only like a tablespoon  per lobster that's why you never see chef coaching this down and serving this but if you're  cooking lobster get those strands out of there and literally just dip them in like a little bit of  Amazoncure shiocoji you're gonna have one of the best bites you've ever had and don't cook those  strands this is like a raw application so you work with a very fresh lobster and you harvest  this specific muscle group out and it's it's absolutely excellent I just love it I can't get enough of it  so um when it comes down to it it's your oyster coge is gonna help you enjoy it and chuck it however you want  so um I kind of think where are we how we looking Eric are we we okay and time Harry how we doing  you sleeping are you's real in that maybe he's no hungry yeah definitely definitely  hungry um I think I definitely we can I think take a couple minutes and catch up on a couple  questions if I may have missed anything who you're yeah Harry I toss everything in the private chat  in terms of like the timestamps for everything um so just let me know which ones you want to go  to and I'll be able to pull those up cool I see one here asking actually not about the  deceit food but uh it looks like there was a question about how you make the cocoa meseo  is that a counter yeah so uh we take account of we do have to hydrate them so you got a  boiled em or steam em or something um I do find uh cooking them in a liquid is really beneficial  because the summit helps reach out some of the tanons tanons these as strange and bitter compounds  in some leaves through their water soluble so that helps the uh cacao nibe itself is very high fat  so it's not very starchy like seed not that sort of thing so we do have to supplement that with a  little corn starch or rice flour that sort of thing but from there it's just you know get the  flour on get some spores in let it grow out really good I typically let it sport pretty heavily  because of food that says riches this you're not going to pick up on the uh accredited ear or the  astringency that you can get associated with heavily sport codi um and then you know pick your salt  percentages when you want to go low salt for a short term high salt for an extra long and just go  from there um but it it's pretty straightforward start with the the cocoa naves and you got to make  sure you do cook them and hydrate them uh it smells so good so good um there was also there were a  couple questions about using uh things like seaweed and kelp yeah yeah I mean you use them there's so many  different uh you know ways that you can use them and they add great flavors too uh I love I absolutely love  I mean pick up pick a seaweed you know whatever you want to use hijiki or Wakame or Kombu or anything  and literally put a couple botas of Wakame and um in your shio koguites fermenting out of control  it's like the ocean in uh you know and a aroma and it tastes just fantastic so seaweed yes they're great  use them uh you see we've done all the different ways you can too like wrap your fish in them  do in poppy oat using seaweed instead of parchment paper and eat the seaweed they're they're just wonderful  nice of can you talk Jeremy a little bit about how you would approach making an amino sauce with  like the crab shells one of the reasons that I have that is that in New England uh the green  crabs are severely invasive and so a lot of folks are working on different things we can do with the  green crabs because right now they're just destroying shelf-ish beds and things they don't have  any natural predators really yeah you know ducks and a couple of other water birds will eat them  sometimes but they're not fast enough right so we've got tons of green crabs and there are  people working on some fish sauces and some other things so if you talk a little bit about that  approach yeah yeah and and I've had there's two people had that stopped in larger over the past  couple years bringing in some of these green crab sauces that they've been working in that area  uh and they're all fantastically delicious so uh really you know if if you were getting any  ingredient like that like these green crabs honestly you could throw a bone to them in a bucket  five down a bucket take a baseball bat and kind of start crushing them up add some water there  you know find your ratio of coji and salt that you want to add to that and just let it go just like  you were making a fish sauce um the kind of the fish sauce methodology whether it's with coji or  without coji can work for like any of these leftover parts the bones the guts the shells of anything  and that's what's beautiful about it so kind of find a fish sauce methodology that suits your needs  you know with how you like to make it and what you like to do with it and then whether it's lobster  shells whether it's oyster shells whether it's the side little piece of muscle on the abductor  of a scallop whether it's whole green crabs that you're gnashing in there whatever it is  all of these things can be be very easily turned into an amigo sauce now there is another way  if you want and what you can do is you can take all your shells you can take all your bones and you can  make a fumig you can make a fish stock or a shell stock with that skim off the fat get you know  the purify it clarify it do whatever you want and then from there you've got a very flavorful fish  base liquid that it's as simple as adding salt and some sort of coji to stirring going through the  amino sauce making process and you have something great so there's several different approaches  we can take with this and and this kind of leads us to you know a lot of times when we work with  our wild mushrooms and we're canning them a lot of times you get these mushrooms we plant them all  off and then we pack them in the jars and then we put stock over them well you know when you're  working with seafood too you often have these liquids that are flavored and you normally just  pour down the sake well let that be the water in your amino sauce let your poaching liquid that you  you know just you know add some coji to it add a little bit of flux of fish scrap and and  you know you can turn them into sauce and so there's many many kind of I guess levels of entry  you can get in you know how deep do you want to go how much control do you want to over the process  do you want to see it from the ground up do you want to infuse do you want to extract these shells  do you want to crush them you want to see if you can grow a variety of coji that produces  a lot of tighten these and see if you can actually liquefy the shells you know like there's  various things that you can look at for that and all these things are straightforward and keep  in mind too you chuck an oyster you chuck a clam that liquid that liquid core coming off of that  that can be turned into amino sauces we do the same thing with you know the liquid coming off  of animal muscles that that liquid in the bottom of the package we buy a steak it's got the little  sanny pads so can I mean that that technically is called purge we ferment we've been doing this  for years of fermenting that purge that byproduct into various amino sauces and using it in  different ways you know these aquatic animals they they have purge too so save these liquid  chuck this over container right so you can catch that and then you can add some coji add some salt  you have this just great thing and when you're taking like oyster look core clam look core right  that's a very pure concentrated straightforward thing you add a little bit of coji to that and salt  you just end up with something that's like we we started um calling them positans love potions  you know a different shellfish scrap and and the cores that we were then turning into these  amino liquids you know amino sauces they they all get so highly perfumed and they're very very  pure notes of flavor from these ingredients so if you don't have things like a rotary evaporator  you can just still out different things and go about it that way you know similar past  presenters that have gone over some of that stuff they do and re-blending of of ingredients and stuff  and it's absolutely incredible and it's silly but not everybody has a rotary evaporator  that they have access to so you can just kind of channel funnel in with some of these other techniques  and create stuff that's just absolutely incredible right you pointed out earlier that like you know how  long it takes you to go through a gallon of fish sauce you know restaurant situation right I mean  like you know I have I mean I I feel like I use you know compared to most Americans  probably a lot of fish sauce but like how many you know I go through a bottle every two years exactly  exactly and you're making a five gallon bucket is very appealing to me at home but then I'm also like  I don't know if I had I know enough people to even give a court the fish sauce to make that  practical well well and you know as sometimes you just got to force the gift on some people  you be like okay everybody's getting fish sauce for Christmas this year yeah I think sales for Hanika  that wouldn't be so kosher oh man oh man oh somebody is saying they'd like to see my desk it's  I'm I'm in the dining room at L'Arto this is actually just the table but I got this crazy play to see  food here I'm gonna turn that into bully based tonight with some coji yeah all this stuff there's  a treasure behind me there is a much eras set up on this table so it's all just really condensed  there was there was a question that popped in here just a minute ago asking if you can use  shellfish in your mirror yeah yeah yeah I don't I don't see why not one of the things  um I would really kind of year on the the side of the sweeter meats for that type of application  so like scallops scrap abductor muscles from clams or muscles that sort of thing  you know the flesh of some sweet varieties of shrimp and whatnot I would kind of reserve that  for those things because of their inherent sweet flavors and that will transfer over really well to  a mirror you know especially one of your using a coji that's just really floral just full of  top end bouquet and just wonderful notes high sweet notes you know sure it works in sellers  some shellfish into there are those sweeter parts and make a great mirror I don't I don't see why I  would work yeah yeah there is a I just want to chime in the um the question about bio genic  amyots let's see about third this one up on the screen  um I don't have much to address with them at this point can and I haven't done a lot of research  with them so if you want if you have any info can that you can kind of push out there for  so maybe this is something we can dissect really nicely in the slaction and all um yeah there there  is just not something that um um to focus on right now so I don't know enough to really discuss them  but like I said Ken if you can if you want to get a slack going on some of those and I'd love to be  able to follow along with that conversation that or if you can post something really quick if you want  to give us a little summary while we're finishing up you know we can definitely definitely get people going on  that a Lana has a quick question here I see Harry she's asking can you add food great  citric acid into already made amyots for the acidic notes and sure you totally can there's no problem  with that if you want to put a splash of vinegar in your amyots you don't have to use you know a  black or brown allooiancissus citric acid produce or that that's just grass and you can you can do it  totally so here here's a question that just came in yeah dummy is asking about if it's possible  to make an alcohol free socket with amino sauces from the O.M. Well so here's this whole question is  it's still sake if it doesn't have alcohol in it right all right that's kind of one of the  tenants of what what a drink like that is so um essentially you could say amazaki is alcohol free  socket yeah so you know there's that if you have access to distilling technology you can actually  distill the alcohol out of your socket and drink what's left right do that I happen to have a  machine that can do that so unfortunate and have been able to do that a few times but  outside of that yeah I mean drink I'm a sake that's that's alcohol free socket essentially  and easier to make so yeah yeah way easier to make way easier to make  I can't wait to see what some of you do with with some some seafood you know I love all the  really interesting preserves and pace and sauces and everything that you can make with them  but what I really love to see is just the simplicity of seafood and pelogi so as you're sharing  I'd love to see like your locks I'd love to see your split locks or that just stuffed with  me so in butter like you know these dishes I think are incredible and one thing to keep in mind  it's not just like a you know a brine or the amazaki like 15 minutes can do if you're doing things like  you know me so black hive you're taking that me so when you're rubbing it and smearing it on a fish  filet honestly you if if that's on there for more than an hour you're starting to put into like  you're starting to go into locks territory from as opposed to like fresh cooked territory it can  happen that fast and these things can be that salty and past things on so you know kind of keep that in  mind you don't need a lot of time to flavor any seafood because the protein is so delicate and  absorb flavor so well almost kind of think of it like like tofu in some ways where you're not  going to get that with you know with terrestrial proteins I see a question here intentionally  go for sport relationship with the black OG yes I always do I push it to heavily sport  because when I make things like our black cheese and the black amazaki I want them to be really black  I'm going for the color too so I typically do the black and brown varieties the citrus acid  codies and I really want the spores in there for that color and everything which you don't you don't  get much of an accurate off taste with these because it's a citrus acid so so heavy I typically do  like a 72 hour grow on these in a lower temperature range to encourage more spores to happen  awesome can can posted some info here about the biogenic amazin fermented fishing meat products so  this definitely definitely something that that gonna look into so thanks for sharing that that info  can sweet yeah and Julia yes sorry I had a little bit of a rough week my life had  had surgery this past Monday so I haven't she's been out of work I've been haven't been able to  jump into slack as much as I wanted to but starting tomorrow I'll be pretty engaged all this next  week so we'll definitely be looking at some of that food safety stuff so think I'd coachy  cons over two weeks all the time it gets to this stuff and thank you all for your patience  hey what are you going to cook some seafood tonight um you know living in Rhode Island now  you know we do have access to some amazing seafood I went down the road actually I'm going to cook some  steak tonight oh there you go putting a little you know I was thinking about a quick shio  coaching marinade on it because it's just one of my favorites yeah I took a ride down the road to the  to the farm where we get most of our meat and they just started a dairy operation like  under the radar so I won't you know I can't announce it but but I did pick up a half a gallon of  unhomogenized um pastrized there you go it might do something with that as well right on I love it  I love it I'm gonna eat all this seafood tonight pretty much all of it I think except these little  carp that we're gonna smoke oh it's so it's so getting going down I'm so excited  all right I think Eric what time are we going to are we going to 530 or are we over already  um technically we're over already but it's really you look like depending on like I don't you don't  want to like take up too much of your time but yeah I'm too old if anybody has any further  questions you know just working with seafood you know even aging seafood you know what we do  and looking at you know the enzymes with this you know when when this locks in here this is  2% salt 1% brown sugar on here and then Amazaki and that's what it sits in for 48 hours  and then I'll let it sit here for another 48 hours to dry out and equalize kind of after that  point we can kind of we can let it still kind of age out a little bit you know we just got to watch our  humidity controls make sure it doesn't dry out too much but um you know it's it's really cool um  a lot of you any of you that are restaurant operators and you're having to work with a 7 day  timeline for ingredients this is uh USDA FDA food code right now and it's being really hammered in  across the country uh that any ingredient you get in from the time you open it to receive it you have  to use it within 7 days or cook it right you got a and then you get another 7 days and cook it's it's  like really crazy stuff right now but fish is a great thing like if you are driving if you're working  on restaurant setting you you want to show some stuff off like this is great because it's in and  it happens in under the time that food code says we have to use ingredients so it's a really really  great way to kind of you know work with in existing food code structure to be able to do cool things and  you know dry age some fish even though we're doing it number 7 days and then we're using it so um you know  you you have a lot of options um and there's just some really incredible fun things that you can  do if you are going to be aging fish to one thing that you do want to keep in mind is get the  guts out of them and a lot of times you know you're either doing fuleys or if you're doing whole fish  kind of like I have sitting right there uh if you're doing something like that you know I bone that  out from the inside the spines gone all there's no bones in that fish it's ready to go as locks  we just kind of left the head and tail on there for aesthetics so you know you can do those different  things too uh but just keep in mind you know you can go too far with code G&C food and when that happens  you end up with amino sauces in a amino pace so it's all good dinner isn't rude you're just  going to be eating it like six months to a year from now would would you ever take that like head  on tail on fish and then take it out of the dry edge or actually air dry it to really really you know  more like because I once visited a facility um in Negasa in Japan that I happened upon completely randomly  that where they basically were using almost a prosciutto style curing the process and drying  process on whole sand yeah it was incredible it was a barn looked like a new England tobacco barn  with like a sand it's a hang up in the rafters yeah yeah if you're being packed and salt for a period of  time I don't you know they weren't using code G obviously other things ended up on there just sort  of locally within the aging process yeah so if you have a really good humidity control controls and  some plant times you you have that in natural environment where the ease of a house and wind blows  and you're about a coast like sometimes you are in the time in place where like you're just  environment is fine for that other times you need more controls you need a chamber where you can  exactly control the humidity the temperature that sort of thing so uh yes like we can take these so far  you know uh in restaurant setting though when they we have to be mindful is it if we want to do  a specialized process we need a whole has-up plan we need to be able to prove to the inspectors  that we can do it we can do it safely and the onus is on us so a lot of times we just  turn to work within food code and push it as far as we can before you know there there's a  potential issue with holding it on that eighth day you know and it's all about the potential ality of a food barn illness happening it's not on that eighth morning automatically everything's  just filled with Sam and Allen botchillism like it doesn't work that way but um yeah you can take  it very far and if you want to look into um um there is oh my god i'm totally blank  and it's name right now there's a great chef in North America who's doing a lot with  dry age or in their dry age fish program and what they're doing doing just full  beautiful sure cutary there's also uh chef jashn island down under uh he's an australia  and uh you know you get one of his books and you'll see like yeah you can do full-blown beautiful  shark cutary i know uh chef jester and sevoreeno and pitsberg for many years when he had his  his restaurant cure which he's he's doing with full shark cutary set up now um uh at cure i remember  he was doing like a swordfish brzola and stuff that i was a culinary school school student when  i first ate that stuff and i was like get the fuck out of here my mind is exploding you're making  shell cutary out of fish what you know so yeah you can do it you can push it you can push it  really really far so cool yeah just you know if you're gonna do it in the restaurant you got to  make sure you can prove that what you're doing is safe and you need a lot of logs and a lot of  paperwork to be able to do that for someone who doesn't working your establishments so you need  to be able to show them that you can do those things if you can do that go ahead and do it at home  have all the fun you want but just make sure food safety and the thought of that is at the fore  you're doing things safely you're not cross contaminating you're using proper salt percentage  isn't everything you know we want to have fun we don't want to stick in ourselves and other people so  you know let's make food safety sexy it needs to be there's a question in here about someone who's  working with uh pia cha i'm not sure yeah uh the really large white flesh amazon river fish and i  assume is probably similar to your popular fish yeah yeah you know uh uh uh big white flesh fish  definitely like i would definitely try smoking some of that you know hold it hold in that  amazon's acuersio crodie brine for for good 24 hours and then get some smoke on it especially if it's  a nice big fish our white fish that we get you know sometimes they're they're we'll see about this  long this big around like something we get some big fish i've been feeling this is a considerably  bigger fish than that though but yeah definitely i would look at things that people do with  very freshwater fish whether it's uh sturgeon white fish walleye and apply some of those things  to this fish um and definitely i think try some ground applications a lot of freshwater fish especially  the big ones people can complain to them tasting either uh muddy or silty and i feel like a lot  of smoke applications and that sort of thing and ground applications kind of help break up some  of that muddy silty dirty flavors in some of those fish that people pick up on and are not attracted  to so maybe try some of that do some ground stuff make a great fish ball or skewers or paddies or  something um and i see can ask you here about koichi san spores i believe he's he's uh so  we monitor he does send sell some different blended preparations uh but like this this black koji  like he calls this i think it's listed as black koji so um yeah it's uh it's a it's pretty wonderful stuff  oh right uh our worms are problem in fermenting fresh wild fish they can be yeah so but before  i mean if you're catching your own fish and making these things like yeah you should go through  parasite kill steps uh so either hold your fish for 30 days at negative 30 degrees candle it  to remove parasites or do something that you can uh kill them out with and and you know there are  time tables that you can look at for exposure to salt and the parasites and how long it keeps the  register uh you know the eggs or the parasite itself uh dead or in ur and ur so you can look  up this information um you know a lot of times we make our locks with still had trout and that's a  fresh water fish and can be home to you know parasites but if you source things right and they've gone  through the three kill steps and stuff with the boats and the suppliers uh you hopefully shouldn't  have to worry about that so much so well i mean Jeremy this is i know it's been incredible for me  to be able to be a part of this and listen in i have so many ideas now um and i you know to start  working more with fish i gotta get a dry hydriger that's something i don't have but i have to  try to justify because my two kids don't eat very much so you know you're and Harry the  make a half size unit i know they do i know that yeah that that's somewhat approachable my my  next big purchase uh i'm lining up for a freeze dryer oh wow yeah that's that's one that i want  so badly very so badly so i got the rotary evaporator this past year so where we're making moves  nice well get there awesome so how do we i we don't say goodbye during coji con because like  everybody's just gonna be coaching again later tonight tomorrow and and also something so i guess we say  uh till the next time exactly not so much goodbye but see you later that's right no awesome y'all  so thank you both so much for your time um that was that was great there's uh yeah so much good  information there and seafood is delicious and it wasn't before a business presentation wasn't  often something that i thought of as like being fermentable or like having like coji application  so this really like helped open my eyes so thank you yeah there's there's tons there man there's tons there  cool cool um so Harry and Jeremy i'm just gonna remove y'all from the stream for a quick second  now i'm gonna roll wrap up and i should be good to go all right y'all so um that wraps up today's  presentations uh for coji con 2023 um tomorrow we have three more presentations tomorrow at 8 a.m.  Monday February 27th uh vana cachaudi reef is gonna be talking about Indian achars um at 8 a.m.  tomorrow at 10 a.m. Eastern standard time um David Zilber is gonna be talking um about as  Brigillus molds as enzyme factories which should be pretty fascinating and then um we have a later  presentation um at 8 p.m. Eastern standard time with yukae salad uh so i'm making at home um so as  always i just want to post up some fanners region find Jeremy and Harry and learn more about  all the great stuff that they're doing um so you can learn more about the work that Harry is doing  with eating with the ecosystem um on their Instagram page right over here um you can also check out  the Brooklyn kitchen um on Instagram right over here as well as um regular Instagram at the food  baller right over that way um and for Jeremy um you can check out Instagram for a larger right over here  at larger db um and you can find Jeremy's personal Instagram um right over here at tm gasstrenot  um and as always um you can check out cojicon on our Instagram page at coji.con um you can  check out the cojicon website which i'm sure y'all have already found because you're watching this um  but cojicon.org and if you want to learn more about the yellow farm house and what we're doing  over here um you can check us out um at yellow farm house at org as well as yellow farm CT on Instagram  and if you have any questions about cojicon or anything that we're doing um definitely feel free  to send us an email out info at yellow farm house so i work uh so with that i'm going to wrap up  um today's presentation and i'm snobbed by it's see you later so i'll see you all see you all soon  see you